AdvertisementSupported byBy Kelly WhitesideTAMPA, Fla. — After dominating Sunday’s N.C.A.A. championship game for three quarters, Baylor was in an unexpected position against Notre Dame, fighting for the lead and doing so without one of its top players. And the Irish had the ball in the hands of their best player.In the closing seconds, with a chance to tie the game, Arike Ogunbowale, a player known for coming through in big moments, was on the free-throw line. When she missed her first shot, she threw back her head in disbelief.She planned to hit the rim for the second free throw, with the hopes of a rebound and a last-gasp shot. Instead, it went in. As the buzzer sounded, Baylor celebrated a 82-81 victory and a title.It’s the Lady Bears’ third national championship and their first since blowing out the Irish in the 2012 final. Only Connecticut (11) and Tennessee (eight) have more in the N.C.A.A. era.All season long, Baylor (37-1) thrived on the dominance of its post players. Against Notre Dame (35-4), the bigs once again came up — well — big. Time after time, the 6-foot-7 Kalani Brown turned on the left block for layups or the 6-4 Lauren Cox followed with a rebound.But with 1 minute 22 seconds remaining in the third quarter, Cox came down awkwardly from an attempted rebound and crumpled to the floor grabbing her knee. Her screams filled the quieted arena. The team’s trainer ran to her aid, and Coach Kim Mulkey draped her body over her sobbing player. Cox left the court in a wheelchair, and with that, Baylor had lost its second-leading scorer, top rebounder and top shot blocker. At that point, the Lady Bears led by 62-50.The Irish proceeded to cut the lead to 3 early in the fourth quarter, and it was a tie game with 4:55 remaining.“When she went down, we got a little rattled,” Brown said.After the game, Mulkey was in tears, full of heartbreak and joy. “She’s the heart and soul of this team,” Mulkey said of Cox.Baylor point guard Chloe Jackson added, “We had to finish the job for her.”Jackson entered the game averaging 11.3 points. In the final game of her circuitous career, she scored 26. With 28.6 seconds left in the game, she hit a crucial jumper to give Baylor an 80-78 lead.Then with 3.9 seconds left and the score at 80-80, Jackson, a graduate transfer who was thrust into the starting lineup at a new position, drove through the lane for the decisive basket.“Jackson was having a day,” Notre Dame Coach Muffet McGraw said. “We were actually trying to guard her. She just got a lot of really good shots, shot over us, went by us, scored in pretty much any way. Really, really stepped up in the big moment.”Jackson began her career at North Carolina State but fractured her foot early in her freshman season, ending her year. She decided the Wolfpack offense was not a good fit and transferred to Louisiana State, sitting out another season because of N.C.A.A. rules. She was one of the Tigers’ top players, but during her time there, they did not advance beyond the first round of the N.C.A.A. tournament.“I wanted to win,” Jackson said about her decision to come to Baylor. She had never played point guard at this level until this season. “I wanted Coach Mulkey to push me to become the best player that I can be, and she’s really done that. I couldn’t have written a better story.”The Lady Bears got off to a searing start, shooting 67 percent from the field in the first quarter, preventing the Irish from settling into their potent transition game. Notre Dame struggled to recover, trailing by 43-31 at the half.Baylor, the top overall seed, entered the tournament having lost only to Stanford, in December. The Lady Bears exerted their dominance throughout the tournament, rolling over opponents by an average margin of 38.2 points in their romp to the Final Four. In the semifinals, Baylor survived a potential upset against Oregon by frustrating the Ducks’ sharpshooters and dominating inside.With Sunday’s win, Baylor thwarted Ogunbowale and Notre Dame’s hopes of winning back-to-back titles.Notre Dame had returned every player from last year’s team and featured four seniors in the starting lineup along with the junior guard Jackie Young, who is eligible to enter the W.N.B.A. draft.In last year’s Final Four, Ogunbowale hit last-second shots to give her team victories in the semifinal and the championship game. Against Connecticut on Friday, Ogunbowale followed a 2-point first half with a 21-point second half. And against Baylor, the nation’s best big-moment player was energized once again, willing the Irish back into the game, only to come up just short while finishing with 31 points.“It’s tough. It’s tough,” Ogunbowale said about the missed free throw. “You can’t really do anything about that one.”As a result of Notre Dame’s comeback, the Lady Bears did not walk away with the dominant win it seemed they would at halftime. But for Brown, who had 20 points and 13 rebounds, it was a fitting end to a college career, and to her journey with Mulkey, whom she has known since grade school. Brown’s mother, Dee, played at Louisiana Tech when Mulkey was an assistant there.“Coach Mulkey has literally seen me grow up,” Brown said. Her mother coached her as a child, but she also learned from her father, the former N.B.A. player P. J.P. J. Brown’s career ended with his first title in 2008, when he was with the Boston Celtics. Kalani Brown was in the arena the night her father hoisted a championship trophy.Now she has one.“I left on a good note,” Brown said. “This is the best thing ever.”Mulkey calls Brown the “kindest, sweetest kid.” But when she arrived at Baylor, the coach said, she needed to embrace her size and learn to lean in, instead of blend in.“It’s O.K. to raise your voice and holler, ‘Give me the ball,’ ” Mulkey said.When the final buzzer sounded and the celebration began, Brown ran over to Cox, who was on the sideline with crutches. They hugged for a long time as the confetti fell.“We did this for you,” Brown told Cox. “We did this for you, babe.”Advertisement