AdvertisementSupported byBy David Waldstein and Ben ShpigelOne of the oldest adages about college basketball is that guard play is the key to tournament success. Amid the intensity and mayhem that unfold each March, it is often the most composed, savvy and talented guards who determine the fates of their teams. But not always.On Saturday, three of the best guards in the country showcased their skills in the N.C.A.A. men’s basketball tournament. One made the winning basket, another who is known for range could not make a 3-point shot, and perhaps the best guard of all probably played his last game in college.Ja Morant, the singular talent from Murray State, hit his first five 3-point attempts and poured in 28 points, but the 12th-seeded Racers could not handle No. 4 Florida State as the Seminoles advanced to the round of 16 with a 90-62 victory in Hartford.In Jacksonville, Fla., Tremont Waters of No. 3 Louisiana State, one of the most dynamic point guards in the country, pushed his team to victory against No. 6 Maryland.Later on the same court, Fletcher Magee, the brilliant distance shooter for No. 7 Wofford — the player who set an N.C.A.A. record for career 3-pointers (509) — went a staggering 0 for 12 from beyond the arc as the Terriers lost, 62-56 to No. 2 Kentucky.Like Magee, Waters missed all of his 3-point attempts (he took four), but it did not matter. His driving, scooping layup with 1.6 seconds left gave the Tigers a 69-67 win and ignited a huge celebratory pileup.Waters ran the final possession to perfection, punctuating an intrepid dribble drive with the winning scoop shot. For those who follow L.S.U. basketball, it was not surprising. Early in the season, Coach Will Wade impressed upon Waters the importance of ball security by telling him the basketball was like the state of Louisiana.“If I turn the ball over,” Waters said Friday, “then it’s not good for the state and obviously for our basketball program as a whole.”Wade, who is suspended indefinitely after being linked to a recruiting scandal, did not accompany the Tigers to Jacksonville. But his advice still resonated for Waters, whose late-game ball-handling helped the Tigers avoid what would have been a dreadful collapse against Maryland. L.S.U. will play Michigan State on Friday night in Washington in its first trip to the round of 16 since 2006, when it reached the Final Four.“They’re big-time athletes,” Maryland Coach Mark Turgeon said. “Crazy athletes, and the point guard is terrific.”To slip past Maryland, L.S.U. overcame a miserable stretch in the second half, when the Terrapins’ 3-2 zone forced the Tigers into deep outside shots. Maryland erased a 15-point deficit, and the teams traded leads until the Terrapins tied the score one final time, on Jalen Smith’s 3-pointer with 25.8 seconds left.Playing for the final shot, L.S.U. put the ball in the hands of Waters, who started moving toward the basket with about 6 seconds to go. He dribbled toward the 6-foot-10 Smith, hesitated, and then ducked around him before flipping an underhand shot off the glass.When a desperation shot by Maryland bounced off the top of the backboard at the buzzer, the Tigers piled on Waters.“I was in the bottom of the dog pile,” Waters said, “and just the feeling, it feels amazing.”Morant’s feelings were not so gleeful. Still, he finished averaging 24.5 points and 10.3 points to become the first player in Division I to average at least 20 points and 10 assists in a season. He scored 18 points in the first half, but Florida State clamped down, blanketing the other four Racers to keep Morant from dishing to them. He had only four assists.“To be honest with you, I’m still not sure that we stopped Morant,” Florida State Coach Leonard Hamilton said, “and I’m not sure anybody can.”That task will likely now be up to N.B.A. coaches as Morant, who captivated the country with a magnificent triple-double performance in Murray State’s first-round win against Marquette, is expected to leave college and be a top pick in the draft.But he was not willing to discuss that after the loss. Instead, he reflected on his final moment of the season as he sat on the bench with a towel over his head.“I really was just thinking back on what all we have accomplished this year,” he said. “And I’d say I was more hurt by not being able to play with these guys for the remainder of the season.”Kentucky avoided disaster, but it might not have if Magee had shot the ball as well as he usually does. Wofford kept the game close and was within 58-56 after Keve Aluma tipped in a shot with less than 40 seconds left. But after Kentucky’s Reid Travis hit two free throws, Magee missed his 12th and final 3-point attempt with five seconds left.“It’s incredibly disappointing,” Magee said. “I feel like if I make three of those shots, we win the game. You know, a lot of them were good shots, and just, they didn’t go in.”Wofford led by as many as 6 late in the first half, but Kentucky extended its defense to smother Magee, mostly with Tyler Herro and Ashton Hagans powering over screens and helping out when necessary.“The game plan was just make him make a basketball play, put it on the floor,” Hagans said. “That’s what we were trying to do. Tyler did a great job of talking to me when he wanted to switch, but you know, for us to be at our best, we’ve just got to talk and be for one another.”Magee said other teams in the Southern Conference had made similar moves to defend him, without Kentucky’s success.“I think some of it definitely was their good defense,” he said, “and mainly a lot of it was just me being off my shot.”Villanova’s championship reign ended with an 87-61 loss to No. 3 Purdue, which got a career-high 42 points by Carsen Edwards. Villanova won last year’s national title and two of the last three, but struggled this year, losing 10 games.On Saturday, Villanova gave up 16 3-pointers, including nine by Edwards.Few teams let 3-pointers fly more than fifth-seeded Auburn, and the Tigers could not seem to miss in burying fourth-seeded Kansas, 89-75, in Salt Lake City.Bryce Brown, who scored 25 points, made seven of his first eight 3-pointers as Auburn raced to a 51-25 lead at halftime. Kansas got its offensive untracked in the second half, but it could never slow Auburn down enough to make the Tigers sweat.The Tigers, who took 1,012 3-pointers in the regular season, fourth most among Division I teams, made nine of their 13 3-pointers in the first half. Point guard Jared Harper added 18 points for Auburn.The Jayhawks began the season ranked No. 1 but lost three key players — center Udoka Azubuike sustained a wrist injury, forward Silvio De Souza was suspended and guard LaGerald Vick left the team — and their 14-year Big 12 conference title streak ended. Dedric Lawson — the only nonfreshman to start for the Jayhawks — led the team with 25 points and 10 rebounds.Michigan, the No. 2 seed in the West Region, had little trouble advancing past No. 10 Florida, 64-49, in Des Moines to reach the round of 16 for the third consecutive season and fourth time since 2014.Jordan Poole scored 6 of his game-high 19 points in Michigan’s 11-3 run to start the second half. The Wolverines held a 42-29 edge on the glass, with the 7-1 center Jon Teske grabbing 10 rebounds. Michigan Coach John Beilein pulled his starters as a unit with 24.6 seconds to play to a standing ovation from Wolverines fans seated behind their bench. Jalen Hudson led Florida with 11 points.“They really had us confused in the first half because they kept changing defenses on us,” Beilein said. ”Fortunately we were able to get stops so they couldn’t set the defense in the second half.”Brandon Clarke is not a candidate for the Wooden Award. Or the Oscar Robertson Award. Or the Naismith Trophy. The three All-American teams of the United States Basketball Writers Association did not include him.But Clarke showed why he is Gonzaga’s most indispensable player.The forward, a transfer from San Jose State — the only program that offered him a scholarship out of high school — was dominant and the difference as the top-seeded Zags advanced with an 83-71 victory over determined Baylor.Clarke scored 36 points — missing only three shots — and also contributed 8 rebounds, 5 blocks, 3 assists and 2 steals. And most important for the Zags, he helped thwart several robust charges in the second half by the ninth-seeded Bears. Baylor committed nine fouls trying to defend him.Pat Borzi contributed reporting from Des Moines, and Billy Witz from Salt Lake City.Advertisement