AdvertisementSupported byGonzaga 72, Florida State 58By Billy WitzANAHEIM, Calif. — The sweat had not yet dried on the brows of Gonzaga’s basketball players after they dispatched Baylor last weekend, but their gaze turned quickly to what lay ahead — a chance to rewrite last season’s ending.It was clear that they had checked carefully when the N.C.A.A. men’s basketball tournament brackets were announced, and knew they could again be facing Florida State in the same round (a West Region semifinal) and amid the same freeway system (Greater Los Angeles) where their season ended a year ago.“We can’t wait to get revenge,” forward Corey Kispert said, expressing a sentiment that was present up and down the roster.The Zags may have been bullied — and not quite at full strength — last season, but they stood firm enough on Thursday night, turning back the rugged, determined Seminoles, 72-58, to advance to the West Region final on Saturday against third-seeded Texas Tech, which dominated second-seeded Michigan, 63-44.It is hard to imagine that game being more taxing for the No. 1-seeded Zags than the one against fourth-seeded Florida State.Though the Seminoles, who had lost only to North Carolina and Duke over the last two months, were short-handed, climbing uphill and fighting foul trouble all night, they persisted nevertheless.The physical play appeared to grind the Zags down, as they seemed less interested in moving their feet and began reaching more on defense, and their offensive diversity and ball movement were reduced to seeking out their N.B.A. prospects: Rui Hachimura and Brandon Clarke.“It’s March, and we knew adversity would hit,” Gonzaga’s Josh Perkins said. “It didn’t happen early, but it happened.”As much of a slog as it was for Gonzaga, its victory was a masterpiece compared with the game that followed here in Anaheim. Perhaps this was to be expected with the nation’s two most efficient defensive teams, but still: Fourteen minutes into the game, Texas Tech led Michigan by 11-8.And while the Red Raiders eventually found some rhythm, particularly Jarrett Culver (22 points) and Davide Moretti (15 points), the Wolverines’ shooting never progressed beyond abysmal. Michigan, which went to the title game last year and lost to Villanova, missed its first 18 3-point attempts and did not make a jump shot until 10:03 remained. Shortly after, Matt Mooney took a pass from Culver and sank a 3-pointer, extending the Red Raiders’ lead to 25 points and ensuring there would be no late drama.In the earlier game, as a 13-point Gonzaga lead was sliced to 60-56 with 4 minutes 11 seconds left, the Zags steadied themselves on a sequence at each end of the court. Killian Tillie, who was injured when these teams met a year ago, harassed the Seminoles’ Devin Vassell on a drive to the basket and Zach Norvell Jr. came up with a 3-pointer to push the Zags’ margin to 7. Florida State never challenged again.“He hit a big shot,” Florida State’s Mfiondu Kabengele said of Norvell. “You’ve got to give him credit.”Hachimura scored 17 points and Clarke added 15 points, 12 rebounds and 5 blocks for Gonzaga, which also got four 3-pointers from Norvell. Trent Forrest led Florida State with 20 points.It had been a whirlwind week for the Seminoles, who were without a senior leader, Phil Cofer, whose father died a week ago.Cofer, who had injured his foot in the Atlantic Coast Conference tournament, learned of his father’s death when he returned to the locker room after the Seminoles’ first-round N.C.A.A. win against Vermont. His teammates found out when he broke down in tears. Coach Leonard Hamilton was summoned from the interview room, and the news media was cleared from the locker room.Cofer returned home and has been with his family since. Though it was unclear if he would be able to return from the injury, he told his teammates that he would be with them if they reached the Final Four.That became a clarion call for the Seminoles.“When we saw Phil hurting, it hurt us,” P J Savoy, a fellow senior, said on Wednesday. “Just knowing that he’s not going to be here this week gives us that extra purpose of what we’re playing for. So I just feel like we’ve got to go out and win for him.”Being without Cofer — one of the team’s leaders — was not the only shortcoming the Seminoles faced on Thursday. Their spindly 7-foot-4 center, Christ Koumadje, was in foul trouble all night. He played less than three minutes in the first half before picking up two quick fouls, With him out, Gonzaga took an 11-point halftime lead. He got his third less than three minutes into the second half — and with the Seminoles trailing by 42-33, Hamilton had no choice but to leave him in.But Koumadje could be only so careful. When Hachimura made three pump fakes, Koumadje bit on the final one and was whistled for his fourth foul with 14:19 to play.A minute later, Savoy went to the bench with what looked like a severe shoulder injury, though he returned in the final minutes. But no one — not Savoy, Koumadje or Terance Mann (who had 18 points against the Zags last year but was 1 for 8 on Thursday) — could carry the Seminoles all the way back.Advertisement