AdvertisementSupported byBy Ben Shpigel and David WaldsteinDuke, Virginia and North Carolina — three No. 1 seeds from the Atlantic Coast Conference — opened the N.C.A.A. tournament with victories on Friday, but not before each one survived a scare. Virginia may have received the biggest shock: a year after it became the first No. 1 seed to lose its opening game in the men’s tournament, it had to rally from a halftime deficit to defeat Gardner-Webb, 71-56. Duke, the tournament’s top overall seed, fell behind No. 16 North Dakota State in the first half, but a burst led by the star freshman Zion Williamson (25 points) shook the Bison loose, and the Blue Devils cruised to an 85-62 win. “In the second half, we played beautiful basketball,” Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski said.North Carolina, like Virginia, also trailed at halftime, but clawed its way back and won going away, 88-73.Other lower seeds had more luck: No. 10 Iowa, No. 11 Ohio State, the No. 12s Oregon and Liberty, and one No. 13 — U.C. Irvine — were among the double-digit seeds to win on Friday.North Carolina overcame its first-half struggles to advance against Iona, ensuring there would be no repeat of a No. 16-vs.-No. 1 upset this year.The Tar Heels, the Midwest Region’s No. 1 seed, trailed by five at halftime against Iona before dominating the second half to earn a trip to Sunday’s second round to face ninth-seeded Washington.U.N.C. was the last of the four No. 1 seeds to complete play. Gonzaga won easily in Thursday’s first round.Cameron Johnson had 21 points while the freshman Nassir Little had 19 off the bench for North Carolina, which shot 63 percent after halftime. Iona also cooled off, making just 5 of 20 3-pointers in the second half after going 10 of 21 in the first half.Ohio State went from barely making the N.C.A.A. tournament to a spot in the second round with an upset of sixth-seeded Iowa State. Kaleb Wesson had 21 points and 12 rebounds to lead the 11th-seeded Buckeyes (20-14).Keyshawn Woods added 19 points for Ohio State, which will play No. 3 seed Houston on Sunday.Iowa State (23-12) led only once in the second half but had a chance to send the game into overtime when Nick Weiler-Babb had an open attempt at a game-tying 3. His shot missed and ended the season for the Cyclones, who won the Big 12 tournament to earn their spot in the N.C.A.A.s.Ohio State’s win improved the Big Ten’s record to 7-1 in the first round; only Wisconsin lost, to Oregon.After three double-digit seeds won to open the day in San Jose, Calif., Virginia Tech brought some sanity to the site. The fourth-seeded Hokies raced out to a fast start and led No. 13 seed Saint Louis 40-18 at the half. Earlier in the day, No. 13 seed U.C. Irvine beat fourth-seeded Kansas State; 12th-seeded Oregon knocked off No. 5 Wisconsin; and No. 12 seed Liberty upset fifth-seeded Mississippi State.The only time four double-digit seeds won on the same day at the same location was in 2008, when the No. 12 seeds Villanova and Western Kentucky and the No. 13 seeds San Diego and Siena all won games in Tampa, Florida.The 7-foot-6 center Tacko Fall had 13 points, 18 rebounds and 5 blocks to lead ninth-seeded U.C.F. to its first N.C.A.A. tournament victory. The road gets tougher now: No. 1 Duke awaits on Sunday. But Central Florida (24-8) might have some karma, or at least some inside knowledge of the Blue Devils, on their side: Knights Coach Johnny Dawkins played on Mike Krzyzewski’s first Final Four team at Duke in 1986.Don’t look now but, for the third time, today, a No. 1 seed finds itself in a first-half hole. This time it’s North Carolina, the top seed in the Midwest: it gave up 10 3-pointers in the first half and trails Iona, 38-33, at the break.The Tar Heels shot just 33 percent in the first half and hit just 3 of 13 of their own attempts from beyond the arc.Rickey McGill led the way with 12 first-half points for Iona.It wasn’t that close in the end. Williamson, after blowing open the game almost single-handedly in the opening minutes of the second half, finished with 25 points, and R.J. Barrett had 26 and 14 rebounds. The Blue Devils led by only four points at halftime, at 31-27, when Williamson broke the game open by himself. He drove on two defenders for a layup and was fouled. When he missed the free throw, he got the rebound and dunked it. Moments later, Williamson ran down his own steal, dribbled behind his back, and made a remarkable layup that put Duke ahead by 40-27.North Dakota State, which fought hard for a half, simply couldn’t keep up. The Blue Devils will face the winner of Friday’s late game — Central Florida or Virginia Commonwealth — on Sunday.Liberty’s Caleb Homesley scored 14 of his career-high 30 points in the final seven minutes as the Flames roared back to upset Mississippi State in an East Region game in San Jose, Calif., becoming the third 12th seed to advance. Homesley led the comeback from a 10-point deficit, but the fifth-seeded Bulldogs regained the lead at 70-69 on Robert Woodard’s two free throws with 1:37 to go.Liberty’s Lovell Cabbil Jr. then made a 3-pointer to restore his team’s lead and then went 4 for 4 from the free-throw line in the final 14.2 seconds to help Liberty earn the first N.C.A.A. tournament victory in the program’s history.Two other No. 12 seeds, Murray State and Oregon, also won their first-round games. The N.C.A.A. said it was the fifth time the tournament has had three of the four 12th seeds had upset a No. 5 in the same year. The last time came in 2014.Corey Davis scored 26 points to help the third-seeded Cougars beat Georgia State in the Midwest Region.After reaching the national final in 1984, Houston went more than three decades without winning an N.C.A.A. tournament game. Now the Cougars have tournament wins in back-to-back seasons, and they are starting to resemble the program that has five Final Four appearances and produced stars like Elvin Hayes, Clyde Drexler and Hakeem Olajuwon.Fabian White had 14 points and 11 rebounds and Breaon Brady added 13 for Houston (32-3), which will face either Iowa State or Ohio State on Sunday.Williamson scored six points as Duke roared out of the locker room with a 9-0 run. A four-point lead is suddenly 13, and the Duke fans are breathing easier.Williamson grew up in Spartanburg, S.C., about a 90-minute drive from Columbia, where the game is being played at Colonial Life Arena. Williams played here in high school tournament games and said he never expected to play here in college, but he got the opportunity when Duke was sent to the Columbia regional as the top seed.Now he is starting to put on a show for his home state fans: one of his baskets during Duke’s run was a put-back dunk after he missed a free throw; another was one of Williamson’s signature hustle steal plays.On the latter, he tipped the ball away from North Dakota State’s Vinnie Shahid, outran the point guard to get the loose ball, dribbled once behind his back and then gently finger-rolled the ball into the basket. Then he swished a 3-pointer to give him a game-high 21 points on 10-for-13 shooting.Duke is pulling away now, and Williamson is the biggest reason why. DAVID WALDSTEINBlue Devils fans in Columbia, S.C., were nervous and uncharacteristically quiet with their team holding a slim, 31-27, lead at halftime. The sense was Duke might have underestimated North Dakota State, a tough, confident team that has, so far, refused to back down from the challenge of facing the best team in the country.N.D.S.U. guard Vinnie Shahid said Thursday that the Bison planned on winning the game, and he promised he and his teammates would compete. No one paid it much notice, but so far they have, especially on the defensive end, where Coach David Richman had his players switching up defenses and getting onto the chests of the Duke superstars in the first half.The Bison did a particularly good job of bracketing Duke power forward Zion Williamson with a small guard in front and a bigger player behind him. The point appears to be to keep Duke from making high-low entry passes into the big man. Late in the half, N.D.S.U. was in a 2-3 zone. DAVID WALDSTEINA 7-0 run capped by a Jordan Goldwire 3-pointer finally allows Duke to get its head out in front of a game and feisty North Dakota State. The Blue Devils lead by 31-27 at halftime, and Coach Mike Krzyzewski is hoarse enough in his halftime interview to suggest he has done some shouting and plans to do more. Still, he’s got a four-point lead, and Williamson and R.J. Barrett both have 10 points. Considering the alternatives, and the fact that North Dakota State played a full game in a different state two days ago, and he’s got something to work with. North Dakota State's Vinnie Shahid leads all scorers with 15 points. The junior averages 13 points a game.A result that could be considered a significant upset according to seed — No. 12 Oregon’s 72-54 win over No. 5 Wisconsin in the South Region — somehow did not feel like a huge surprise; the Ducks had won the Pac-12 tournament last weekend after all, and their victory Friday was their ninth in a row. Payton Pritchard led Oregon with 19 points; the Ducks will play another upset winner, U.C. Irvine, in a rare 12 vs. 13 matchup on Sunday.Buffalo beat Arizona State, 91-74, and while Coach Nate Oats was surely thrilled with the victory, he wasn’t a big fan of having it come at the expense of the Sun Devils, and his former boss Bobby Hurley.Buffalo lost only three times this season, and spent most of the year in the Top 25. The teams were tied at 14 in the first half before the Bulls went on a 17-5 run to take control. Nick Perkins and Jeremy Harris each scored 21 points for No. 6 Buffalo, which will play No. 3 seed Texas Tech on Sunday for a spot in the Round of 16.The hardest part for Oats may have been the postgame handshake after the rout. Oats, a former high school math teacher, got the Buffalo job after serving as an assistant on Hurley’s staff at the school. They led the team to its first N.C.A.A. tournament berth in 2015, a run that most likely got Hurley the Arizona State job. Now Oats has led Buffalo back to the tournament three times on his own. But he wasn’t happy about a reunion.“It’s not ideal,” Oats said earlier this week. “I don’t want to coach against him. There’s a reason we haven’t scheduled any games against each other. It is what it is, but I’d like to see him win. I’m a friend of his. He gave me my shot in this business, I’m loyal to him. I pull for him. Shoot, I helped him with some recruits down there.”Virginia spent the last year waiting for Friday, a chance to atone for its unprecedented early exit from the 2018 N.C.A.A. tournament, when it became the first No. 1 seed to lose to a No. 16. When that chance arrived, the Cavaliers never led in the first half against Gardner-Webb. But they persisted, rolling to a 71-66 victory after outscoring the Bulldogs by 21 points after halftime.De’Andre Hunter — who missed last year’s disappointing loss to Maryland-Baltimore County with an injury — scored 23 points to lead Virginia, which will face No. 9 Oklahoma in the second round on Sunday. BEN SHPIGELAdmiral Schofield scored 19 points and Jordan Bone added 16 as Tennessee held off a 3-pointer-fueled Colgate surge in the second half. Jordan Burns carried Colgate with 32 points, shooting 12 for 20 from the field and 8 of 12 from behind the 3-point line.The Cavaliers have dug out of their hole and taken their first lead of the second half at 39-38.The first major upset of the N.C.A.A. tournament came from a commuter school perhaps best known for its quirky mascot. The No. 13 California Irvine Anteaters ousted No. 4 Kansas State in the South Region, winning by 70-64 to earn the first N.C.A.A. tournament victory in the program’s history.A year ago, Irvine went 18-17. This year, it rolled to 31 wins, including its current run of 17 in a row. The Anteaters were led by 19 points each from Evan Leonard and Max Hazzard, who drilled a vital 3-pointer with about 90 seconds left that extended Irvine’s lead to 66-61. Kansas State played without one of its stars, Dean Wade, an all-Big 12 forward sidelined by a foot injury.Hazzard,whose grandfather Walt Hazzard won a championship for U.C.L.A. and played for the Lakers, is one of four Irvine players with N.B.A. bloodlines. Spencer Rivers, the son of Clippers Coach Doc Rivers and younger brother of Houston Rockets guard Austin Rivers, is another. He spoke to his father about the opportunity in front of the Anteaters on Monday.“He was saying, ‘Enjoy the moment and try to take the best advantage of it as you can,’ ” Spencer Rivers told reporters. “Make it last as long as possible as well, he was saying. You don’t want to just be happy by being there. You want to try to win the game.” BEN SHPIGELStop us if you’ve seen this before. Could it really be happening again? A year ago, Virginia became the first No. 1 men’s seed to lose in the first round when it fell to Maryland-Baltimore County. This year, Virginia a No. 1 seed again and it is trailing again, this time to No. 16 Gardner Webb. The Runnin’ Bulldogs took a 26-14 lead with 7:40 left to play in the first half, and are playing with a lot of confidence.But who are they, and where do they come from?Gardner-Webb, which is in the N.C.A.A. tournament for the first time, is located 128 miles from Columbia, S.C., where Friday’s game is being played. It is just over the border in North Carolina, so the stands are packed with fans in red and black, and they are loving it. The Bulldogs have a swarming defense and they are feeding off the fan support. Gardner-Webb made 13 of its first 22 shots.If the Cavaliers were not tight coming into the game, they look it now.Third-seeded Texas Tech shook off a slow first half to roll past 14th-seeded Northern Kentucky in the West Region. Jarrett Culver, the Big 12 Player of the Year, scored 29 points on 10-for-17 shooting. The Red Raiders shot 53 percent from the field over all.In one of the biggest first-round victories by a No. 9 seed in N.C.A.A. tournament history, Oklahoma blitzed No. 8 Mississippi, 95-72, in the South Region. Paced by four starters who scored at least 18 points, the Sooners raced to a 12-0 lead, went up by 17 at halftime and led by as many as 29 in the second half. Christian James and Rashard Odomes each had 20 points for Oklahoma. Terence Davis had 17 for the Rebels.According to David Worlock, the N.C.A.A.’s director of media coordination/statistics, the Sooners’ 23-point margin of victory equaled Mississippi State’s over Stanford in 2005 and trailed only Purdue’s 24, over L.S.U in 2003, and Pittsburgh’s 29, over Colorado in 2014. Next up for Oklahoma is a with No. 1 Virginia, which beat No. 16 Gardner-Webb.Sure, both were to end the first half. But UC-Irvine and Kansas State are tied at halftime, 30-30, after this Max Hazzard 3-pointer:More of this type of drama please. Maybe try at the second-half buzzer next?The Big Ten hasn’t won the N.C.A.A. tournament since Michigan State’s title in 2000, but it has had seven teams lose in the championship game since then.In 2002, Maryland beat Indiana in the final, but the Terrapins, then in the A.C.C., weren’t a member of the Big Ten at the time.After that, Illinois lost in 2005, Ohio State in 2007, Michigan State in 2009, Michigan in 2013, Wisconsin in 2015 and Michigan last year, to Villanova.On the first day of the N.C.A.A. tournament, Big Ten teams went 5-0. The second day began with Iowa’s extending the conference’s run of dominance, as the Hawkeyes pulled away late from Cincinnati to win, 79-72, in the South Region. After trailing by 13 points in the first half and by 5 at halftime, Iowa made seven 3-pointers in the second half, including one by Joe Wieskamp that powered an 8-0 run that extended the Hawkeyes’ lead to 73-64 with about a minute remaining.“I thought our ball movement and the shots we got in the second half were better,” Iowa Coach Fran McCaffrey said. “And we made them.”Iowa advances to play No. 2 Tennessee. BEN SHPIGELCBS and Turner Sports released Saturday’s N.C.A.A. tournament schedule late last night:Jacksonville: (6) Maryland vs. (3) L.S.U., 12:10 p.m. (CBS); (7) Wofford vs. (2) Kentucky, after first game (CBS)Des Moines: (10) Florida vs. (2) Michigan, 5:15 p.m. (CBS); (10) Minnesota vs. (2) Michigan St., after first game (CBS)Hartford: (12) Murray St. vs. (4) Florida St., 6:10 p.m. (TNT); (6) Villanova vs. (3) Purdue, after first game (TNT)Salt Lake City: (9) Baylor vs. (1) Gonzaga, 7:10 p.m. (TBS); (5) Auburn vs. (4) Kansas, after first game (TBS)Michigan State’s Tom Izzo is known for his feisty, old school, in-your-face coaching style. Sometimes Izzo gets after his players in ways not often seen anymore. That was what happened Thursday between Izzo and the freshman forward Aaron Henry.Unhappy with Henry’s effort in the second half of a tight first-round game with Bradley in Des Moines, during a timeout Izzo approached Henry on the court, yelled at him and pointed a finger toward his face. Henry appeared puzzled, unsure what Izzo was angry about. Guard Cassius Winston, the Big Ten Player of the Year, jumped between his teammate and his coach and gently guided Izzo away. Later in the timeout, with players seated around him, Izzo lurched toward Henry again. Multiple players eased Izzo back to his seat.Henry responded in the final three minutes with a key basket in the lane and two foul shots as Michigan State, the East Region’s No. 2 seed, held off Bradley, 76-65. Afterward, Henry and his teammates shrugged off Izzo’s tirade. But the video of the incident had created a stir on social media by then, sparking conversation about the behavior of Izzo, who has coached the Spartans to 22 consecutive N.C.A.A. tournament appearances and seven Final Fours. Not everyone thought the coach had done anything wrong. He absolutely did not.“When you are a freshman now, at this time of year, you don’t make mental mistakes on things we’re telling a guy which way he goes, or not running back,” Izzo said. “There are some things Aaron didn’t do a very good job of.“And yet, you know what? I did get after him and he did respond and he did make a couple of big buckets and he did make a couple of big free throws, but that’s not good enough. This is one-and-done time. The ‘my bads’ are out the window. If it’s my fault because that guy played better and it’s my bad because I walked back and didn’t sprint back, then it is your bad and you’re going to hear about it. So that’s what it was.”A follow-up question further annoyed Izzo, who concluded his answer with this:“I get a kick out of you guys,” he said. “Get after somebody because you’re trying to hold them accountable. I don’t know what kind of business you’re in, because if I was head of a newspaper and you didn’t do your job you would be held accountable. That’s the way it is.” PAT BORZIWire reports includedBen Shpigel is a sports reporter and has covered the N.F.L. and the New York Jets since 2011. He has also covered the New York Yankees and, before that, the Mets. He previously worked for The Dallas Morning News.  @benshpigel Advertisement