AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc Tracy and Kevin ArmstrongWASHINGTON — Zion Williamson, Duke’s dominant freshman, finally looked lost.There was less than a second left on the game clock, and Williamson’s top-seeded Blue Devils held a 75-73 lead over fourth-seeded Virginia Tech in a round-of-16 showdown in the N.C.A.A. men’s basketball tournament.Virginia Tech point guard Justin Robinson prepared to inbound the ball from the baseline, and his teammate Ahmed Hill sprinted from the paint toward the corner before curling back to the rim. Guarding Hill, Williamson took one step too far, trailing the Hokie as Robinson led Hill to the rim with a lob pass.“I’m not going to even lie to you, when he caught it, I said, ‘Oh, we’re about to go to overtime,’” Williamson said. “I don’t know what happened. It just kind of went our way.”The ball did not go in. Duke won.When asked how his team usually defends that play, Duke Coach Mike Krzyzewski said, “Better.”It was the second consecutive Duke game of the tournament that ended with the Blue Devils as victors and their opponents lamenting a missed last-second shot that allowed the No. 1-ranked team in the country to close out a precarious win.Five days after surviving Central Florida’s tip-in attempt to advance to the round of 16, the Blue Devils again staved off defeat at the buzzer. And the tournament held onto a top seed just hours after another — the Blue Devils’ archrival, North Carolina — had been upset by Auburn.“That’s a great win for us,” Krzyzewski said soon after Saturday arrived and the 75-73 score went into the books. “We had to play outstanding basketball in order to win.”Duke can expect to be tested again on Sunday, when it faces second-seeded Michigan State for a berth in the Final Four. Krzyzewski acknowledged that his team has displayed a knack for the narrow escape this March.“The game is a great game, and it has amazing endings,” he said.Williamson (23 points, six rebounds, three blocks) established himself early as Duke played without one of its usual starters, the freshman Cam Reddish, who was a last-minute scratch because of a knee injury.At the start, Williamson powered his way to a layup. Next, he put back a teammate’s errant jump shot for a two-handed dunk. Finally, he stepped back to drain a 3-pointer.It was Williamson in full, but there was another level to be reached.He got there midway through the second half, when he finished an alley oop on a pass from point guard Tre Jones (22 points, eight assists, zero turnovers) to give the Blue Devils, who struggled to gain separation from the hard-charging Hokies, a 58-52 lead.“That’s a momentum play for us,” Jones said.All of Williamson’s weaponry was needed. The Hokies came out hot. In the first half, they made seven shots from beyond the 3-point arc. Hill (15 points, six rebounds) provided energy, finishing an alley oop on one possession and flexing his right biceps after knocking down a 3-pointer from the right corner on another.Duke had faced Virginia Tech short-handed last month. That time Williamson was on the bench, as he missed five games because of a mild knee sprain. Virginia Tech won that matchup, 78-72.There were moments Friday night when it looked as if Duke would not be able to take revenge. Frustrated by Virginia Tech’s aggressive approach early on, Duke guard RJ Barrett, another freshman star, immediately attacked the rim after halftime for a layup. A few possessions later, he absorbed a blow from a Virginia Tech defender, made the shot, and converted the free throw as well.Aware that he could get to the rim any time he wanted, Barrett continued to attack, scoring 15 points in the second half. For the game, he had 18 points and 11 assists.“We somehow find a way to keep winning at the end,” Barrett said.Krzyzewski considered how his three freshman starters complemented one another, even on a night when Williamson lost track of his man with the game on the line.“I’m a lucky guy,” the coach said, “lucky guy.”In the earlier East Region semifinal, Cassius Winston played every second of the Spartans’ victory against third-seeded Louisiana State until Friday’s game was well in hand with a minute left. And Michigan State seemed to need of his effort.Winston, a junior point guard who was the Big Ten player of the year and the outstanding player of the conference tournament, which Michigan State won, marshaled the offense and guarded the Tigers’ floor general, Tremont Waters, on defense. He finished with 17 points, taking 16 shots, including three of Michigan State’s 13 3-pointers, and added 8 assists.Without him, it might have been close. L.S.U.’s size and physicality seemed to overwhelm Michigan State at times. But ultimately, the Spartans defeated the Tigers, 80-63, to advance to the regional finals for the ninth time in Coach Tom Izzo’s 24 seasons.“He’s my Tom Brady, in a way,” Izzo said of Winston. “Change running backs and receivers, and he just keeps winning.”Michigan State (31-6) became the second Big Ten team in the round of eight, joining Purdue.The Spartans came out on a tear. With his team ahead by 2-0, Winston dished to the freshman Aaron Henry and lifted up the last three fingers on his hand as Henry drained the 3-pointer. Henry finished with 20 points and eight rebounds.On the next possession, it was Winston’s turn to make one from deep. L.S.U. called timeout after Michigan State raced to a 8-0 lead. In the first half, Michigan State went 7 for 17 from beyond the arc. For the game, the Spartans were 13 of 32, a 40.6 percent success rate.“First half I thought we were unbelievable on the boards, and that was the difference in the game,” Izzo said. His team won the rebound battle, 21-10, in the first half, and 41-34 over all.But L.S.U. (28-7), appearing in its first regional semifinal since 2006, roared back, putting up an 8-0 run of their own to begin the second half, fueled by the sophomore guard Waters, who led all players with 23 points.“We knew they were going to make multiple runs, just like we did,” said Winston, adding, “We just did our best to keep our composure.”Throughout the game, L.S.U. played admirable defense against one of the most efficient offenses, as the Spartans often had to force flailing attempts at the basket as the shot clock ticked.But it was not enough. The Tigers were 15-0 this season when holding their opponent to fewer than 70 points. In the other games, including this one, they went 13-7.Any life L.S.U. might have had left was squeezed out with a little more than 10 minutes left and the Tigers trailing by 12. Skylar Mays of L.S.U. got on a fast break and took the ball in, but Nick Ward, a junior forward who missed several games this season with a hairline fracture in his left hand, used his right to block Mays’s attempted dunk.The block turned into a Michigan State fast break that culminated in Gabe Brown’s fourth 3-pointer of the game.Ward later left the game when he went down, seeming to grab his left wrist, after getting an offensive rebound and being fouled hard by Naz Reid. In a rare lapse, Winston missed both free throws after the flagrant-1 foul on Reid.L.S.U. trailed by as few as 9 points with three minutes to go, but the Spartans were able to trade baskets from there. With barely 90 seconds left, the Michigan State senior Matt McQuaid took the ball to the rim and made a layup while being fouled. He converted the 3-point play.It was the last of many 3-point plays for the Spartan, most of them of the one-shot variety. Michigan State knows that making 4 in 10 shots from deep can cover up a lot of imperfections.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Kelly WhitesideIn a rookie season that has resembled a seismograph, Knicks forward Kevin Knox needed a performance like Sunday’s against the Los Angeles Lakers. He scored 19 points with an array of shots, slashing to the basket, hitting a step-back 3-pointer while guarded by LeBron James and finishing with finesse on a driving, left-handed layup.“Hello, Kevin Knox. It was good to see him play well,” Knicks Coach David Fizdale said. “He’s had his bumps. We know it’s there, it’s in there. It’s just a matter of the ball going in and him getting his confidence up. But I really thought he came with a mind-set that he was going to get out of this rut. The way he was attacking, the force he was playing with.”Knox shot 8 of 14 from the field and 3 of 5 from 3-point range in the Knicks’ 124-123 victory over the Lakers, their 14th win in a dismal season.“I’d been struggling a little bit, but the whole team and coaching staff had confidence in me,” Knox said. “I came to work every single day, got up extra shots. I knew I was going to come out of the streak, so I just wanted to make sure I kept shooting.”Last year the Knicks selected Knox, a freshman from Kentucky, in the first round of the draft, ninth over all. After an ankle sprain sidelined him at the start of the season, Knox’s play took off in December, when he averaged 17.1 points and was named the Eastern Conference rookie of the month.Knox, 19, hit the rookie wall beginning in mid-January, with a 20-game stretch in which he shot 31.8 percent from the field and 27.7 from beyond the 3-point arc. The slump started soon after he scored 31 points, his highest total in the N.B.A., during a game against the Philadelphia 76ers.Shortly before that, Knox had said that he was still learning how to adjust to the demands of the long N.B.A. schedule and its 48-minute games, compared with a 40 minutes in college and A.A.U. ball.“It’s totally different,” he said in late December. “Eight minutes doesn’t seem like a lot, but it really is. That’s a whole quarter almost. Eight minutes is a long time in basketball.”To improve his fitness, Knox did extra sprints after practice and spent more time on the treadmill, running spurts of 15 minutes with the last two as fast as he could.At various points in the season, Fizdale has brought in former Knicks greats like Bernard King, Patrick Ewing, Bill Bradley and Walt Frazier to speak to his young, struggling team. (The coach, who was a Miami Heat assistant coach when James played for them, also made a point of introducing Knox to the Lakers star after Sunday’s game.)King, who was with the Knicks for five seasons in the mid-1980s, and was known for his seemingly unstoppable baseline turnaround jump shot, has focused especially on mentoring Knox.In between their meetings early in the season, Knox studied online video highlights from King’s career.“He helps my game, every time I talk to him,” Knox said. “He’s kind of like me, a wing that gets to the basket, loves transition. He kind of reminds me of myself.”Perhaps the other way around, rook.Knox said he had sought out his own tutors as well, connecting with Chris Bosh, Grant Hill, Jalen Rose, Carmelo Anthony and former Kentucky players for bits of advice during the trying moments.After Monday night’s 128-92 loss in Toronto, the Knicks had 11 games left in the season, all of them meaningless, except for their effect on the draft. The three teams with the lowest win totals will each have a 14 percent of landing the No. 1 selection in June, which presumably will be the Duke freshman Zion Williamson.The Knicks, who have the worst record in the league (14-57), are expected to lose their way into one of those slots, even after that uplifting win against the Lakers, which ended when the Knicks’ Mario Hezonja blocked a shot by James in the waning seconds.“We had a lot of ups and downs this season,” Knox said afterward. “It was big-time win, the first sweep of the season. It’s just a great way to win in the Garden, in the last 10 seconds, against one of the best players to ever play the game and we get a defensive stop with the crowd standing up yelling.”At a critical stretch in the fourth quarter, the Knicks had its three rookies on the court — Knox, center Mitchell Robinson, guard Allonzo Trier — plus guard Kadeem Allen, who was just called up from the Westchester developmental team, and forward Lance Thomas, the longest-tenured Knick.“There’s a process that needs to happen, and ours is growth, making sure the young guys are getting the experience they need in order to be good in this league,” Thomas said. “A lot of young guys don’t get to play especially extended minutes in their first year. It’s a learning experience for young guys. Our goal is to fast-track them.”Knox is sixth in the league among rookies in minutes played per game, at 28, despite shooting a subpar 36.4 percent from the field and struggling with weakside defense. He is averaging 12.3 points with 4.3 rebounds.Even so, Fizdale has never considered sending Knox to Westchester to work on his game in the anonymity of the G League “because our team was already like a glorified G League team,” Fizdale told reporters last week. Because his rookies played substantial minutes all season, he said, he thought it was better for them to take their knocks against the best.Such as James on Sunday and Toronto’s Kawhi Leonard on Monday.“Welcome to the league, kid,” Fizdale said. “This is what it’s about. This is why I wanted him in this. Take those lumps now. Later on in his career, no one will remember this stuff when he is the guy beating up on kids. This is all good for him.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy David Waldstein and Ben ShpigelOne of the oldest adages about college basketball is that guard play is the key to tournament success. Amid the intensity and mayhem that unfold each March, it is often the most composed, savvy and talented guards who determine the fates of their teams. But not always.On Saturday, three of the best guards in the country showcased their skills in the N.C.A.A. men’s basketball tournament. One made the winning basket, another who is known for range could not make a 3-point shot, and perhaps the best guard of all probably played his last game in college.Ja Morant, the singular talent from Murray State, hit his first five 3-point attempts and poured in 28 points, but the 12th-seeded Racers could not handle No. 4 Florida State as the Seminoles advanced to the round of 16 with a 90-62 victory in Hartford.In Jacksonville, Fla., Tremont Waters of No. 3 Louisiana State, one of the most dynamic point guards in the country, pushed his team to victory against No. 6 Maryland.Later on the same court, Fletcher Magee, the brilliant distance shooter for No. 7 Wofford — the player who set an N.C.A.A. record for career 3-pointers (509) — went a staggering 0 for 12 from beyond the arc as the Terriers lost, 62-56 to No. 2 Kentucky.Like Magee, Waters missed all of his 3-point attempts (he took four), but it did not matter. His driving, scooping layup with 1.6 seconds left gave the Tigers a 69-67 win and ignited a huge celebratory pileup.Waters ran the final possession to perfection, punctuating an intrepid dribble drive with the winning scoop shot. For those who follow L.S.U. basketball, it was not surprising. Early in the season, Coach Will Wade impressed upon Waters the importance of ball security by telling him the basketball was like the state of Louisiana.“If I turn the ball over,” Waters said Friday, “then it’s not good for the state and obviously for our basketball program as a whole.”Wade, who is suspended indefinitely after being linked to a recruiting scandal, did not accompany the Tigers to Jacksonville. But his advice still resonated for Waters, whose late-game ball-handling helped the Tigers avoid what would have been a dreadful collapse against Maryland. L.S.U. will play Michigan State on Friday night in Washington in its first trip to the round of 16 since 2006, when it reached the Final Four.“They’re big-time athletes,” Maryland Coach Mark Turgeon said. “Crazy athletes, and the point guard is terrific.”To slip past Maryland, L.S.U. overcame a miserable stretch in the second half, when the Terrapins’ 3-2 zone forced the Tigers into deep outside shots. Maryland erased a 15-point deficit, and the teams traded leads until the Terrapins tied the score one final time, on Jalen Smith’s 3-pointer with 25.8 seconds left.Playing for the final shot, L.S.U. put the ball in the hands of Waters, who started moving toward the basket with about 6 seconds to go. He dribbled toward the 6-foot-10 Smith, hesitated, and then ducked around him before flipping an underhand shot off the glass.When a desperation shot by Maryland bounced off the top of the backboard at the buzzer, the Tigers piled on Waters.“I was in the bottom of the dog pile,” Waters said, “and just the feeling, it feels amazing.”Morant’s feelings were not so gleeful. Still, he finished averaging 24.5 points and 10.3 points to become the first player in Division I to average at least 20 points and 10 assists in a season. He scored 18 points in the first half, but Florida State clamped down, blanketing the other four Racers to keep Morant from dishing to them. He had only four assists.“To be honest with you, I’m still not sure that we stopped Morant,” Florida State Coach Leonard Hamilton said, “and I’m not sure anybody can.”That task will likely now be up to N.B.A. coaches as Morant, who captivated the country with a magnificent triple-double performance in Murray State’s first-round win against Marquette, is expected to leave college and be a top pick in the draft.But he was not willing to discuss that after the loss. Instead, he reflected on his final moment of the season as he sat on the bench with a towel over his head.“I really was just thinking back on what all we have accomplished this year,” he said. “And I’d say I was more hurt by not being able to play with these guys for the remainder of the season.”Kentucky avoided disaster, but it might not have if Magee had shot the ball as well as he usually does. Wofford kept the game close and was within 58-56 after Keve Aluma tipped in a shot with less than 40 seconds left. But after Kentucky’s Reid Travis hit two free throws, Magee missed his 12th and final 3-point attempt with five seconds left.“It’s incredibly disappointing,” Magee said. “I feel like if I make three of those shots, we win the game. You know, a lot of them were good shots, and just, they didn’t go in.”Wofford led by as many as 6 late in the first half, but Kentucky extended its defense to smother Magee, mostly with Tyler Herro and Ashton Hagans powering over screens and helping out when necessary.“The game plan was just make him make a basketball play, put it on the floor,” Hagans said. “That’s what we were trying to do. Tyler did a great job of talking to me when he wanted to switch, but you know, for us to be at our best, we’ve just got to talk and be for one another.”Magee said other teams in the Southern Conference had made similar moves to defend him, without Kentucky’s success.“I think some of it definitely was their good defense,” he said, “and mainly a lot of it was just me being off my shot.”Villanova’s championship reign ended with an 87-61 loss to No. 3 Purdue, which got a career-high 42 points by Carsen Edwards. Villanova won last year’s national title and two of the last three, but struggled this year, losing 10 games.On Saturday, Villanova gave up 16 3-pointers, including nine by Edwards.Few teams let 3-pointers fly more than fifth-seeded Auburn, and the Tigers could not seem to miss in burying fourth-seeded Kansas, 89-75, in Salt Lake City.Bryce Brown, who scored 25 points, made seven of his first eight 3-pointers as Auburn raced to a 51-25 lead at halftime. Kansas got its offensive untracked in the second half, but it could never slow Auburn down enough to make the Tigers sweat.The Tigers, who took 1,012 3-pointers in the regular season, fourth most among Division I teams, made nine of their 13 3-pointers in the first half. Point guard Jared Harper added 18 points for Auburn.The Jayhawks began the season ranked No. 1 but lost three key players — center Udoka Azubuike sustained a wrist injury, forward Silvio De Souza was suspended and guard LaGerald Vick left the team — and their 14-year Big 12 conference title streak ended. Dedric Lawson — the only nonfreshman to start for the Jayhawks — led the team with 25 points and 10 rebounds.Michigan, the No. 2 seed in the West Region, had little trouble advancing past No. 10 Florida, 64-49, in Des Moines to reach the round of 16 for the third consecutive season and fourth time since 2014.Jordan Poole scored 6 of his game-high 19 points in Michigan’s 11-3 run to start the second half. The Wolverines held a 42-29 edge on the glass, with the 7-1 center Jon Teske grabbing 10 rebounds. Michigan Coach John Beilein pulled his starters as a unit with 24.6 seconds to play to a standing ovation from Wolverines fans seated behind their bench. Jalen Hudson led Florida with 11 points.“They really had us confused in the first half because they kept changing defenses on us,” Beilein said. ”Fortunately we were able to get stops so they couldn’t set the defense in the second half.”Brandon Clarke is not a candidate for the Wooden Award. Or the Oscar Robertson Award. Or the Naismith Trophy. The three All-American teams of the United States Basketball Writers Association did not include him.But Clarke showed why he is Gonzaga’s most indispensable player.The forward, a transfer from San Jose State — the only program that offered him a scholarship out of high school — was dominant and the difference as the top-seeded Zags advanced with an 83-71 victory over determined Baylor.Clarke scored 36 points — missing only three shots — and also contributed 8 rebounds, 5 blocks, 3 assists and 2 steals. And most important for the Zags, he helped thwart several robust charges in the second half by the ninth-seeded Bears. Baylor committed nine fouls trying to defend him.Pat Borzi contributed reporting from Des Moines, and Billy Witz from Salt Lake City.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressOKLAHOMA CITY — With the outcome all but decided and just over a minute remaining, Oklahoma City Thunder coach Billy Donovan wanted to get Russell Westbrook out of Tuesday's game.Westbrook wasn't having it, waving off Hamidou Diallo.Moments later, Westbrook grabbed a rebound and nearly snagged another as the ball glanced off his fingertips after a miss.On the next possession, Westbrook snagged a final rebound and joined some elite company in NBA history in the Thunder's 119-103 win over the Los Angeles Lakers.Westbrook became the second player in league history to have 20 or more points, rebounds and assists in a game, finishing with 20 points, 20 rebounds and 21 assists. Wilt Chamberlain was the only other player to accomplish the feat.After the game, Westbrook dedicated the win to rapper Nipsey Hussle. The musician, like Westbrook a Los Angeles product, was shot and killed on Sunday in Los Angeles."I'm not going to try to put it into words but like I said on the floor, that's who it's for," Westbrook said. "I'm going to leave it at that."Chamberlain set the lofty mark with 22 points, 25 rebounds and 21 assists in a 1968 game.Westbrook also tied Chamberlain for second all-time in 15-point, 15-rebound, 15-assists games with eight. Oscar Robertson had 14 such games in his career.Lakers coach Luke Walton said his team narrowed in on three keys to beat the Thunder, even with his own depleted lineup — transition defense, taking care of the ball and boxing out.The Thunder outscored Los Angeles on the fast break 34-8, the Lakers turned the ball over 21 times and Oklahoma City won the rebounding battle 50-39."When they get what they got off of those three things, it's going to be really hard to win the game, even if you shoot the ball well like our guys shot tonight," Walton said.The Lakers shot 47.6% from the field.Thunder coach Billy Donovan said Westbrook explained the wave-off after the game."I knew that he had a close friend pass away," Donovan said. "For a few guys on our team relationship-wise, it's kind of hit them pretty hard just in the last couple days."For Russell, that was something that really, really meant a lot to him."After Westbrook clinched the mark, grabbing the rebound on Lance Stephenson's miss in the final minute, he drew a large ovation from the crowd before leaving the game for Diallo.Oklahoma City had struggled in the first half recently, trailing in eight consecutive games entering Tuesday.The Thunder, despite leading by as many as 11 points early, looked to be heading toward another halftime deficit when Kentavious Caldwell-Pope put the Lakers ahead with a 3-pointer late in the second quarter.But Oklahoma City closed the half with an 11-6 run and took a 59-55 lead into halftime.Though Westbrook struggled from the field early — missing 12 of his first 14 shots — he was effective on the offensive end from the start, with 10 first-quarter assists."I tried to attack the paint," Westbrook said. "A lot of teams for me load the paint and stop me from getting to the paint, so I tried to use that to my advantage, drawing three or four people and finding open guys."I tried to set the tone early."Westbrook finished 8 of 23 from the field as Oklahoma City won for the third time in its last 10 games.Caldwell-Pope led the Lakers with 23 points.The loss was Los Angeles' second in the last six games despite playing with a roster missing its stars."I thought we brought the energy level that it takes to win," Walton said.INSIDE PRESENCEWithout Tyson Chandler available, the Lakers weren't able to offer much resistance at the rim, especially early.Eleven of Oklahoma City's first 12 baskets came near the rim.Westbrook assisted on eight of those."We told our guys, he's a rare player — he's not a one-man, stay in front (player)," Walton said. "It takes two, three guys walling him up. We were OK giving up jump shots, even if they hit them, to anyone but Paul George. So if you weren't guarding Paul, we should've been in the paint."He had some rebounds where we're putting two, three guys on (Steven) Adams trying to get him off and Russ has always been a fantastic offensive rebounder."TIP-INSLakers: Power forward Kyle Kuzma missed his second consecutive game with left foot tendinitis. Kuzma was joined by LeBron James, Lonzo Ball, Brandon Ingram, Josh Hart and Tyson Chandler as Lakers missing the game due to injury. . Before the game, rapper Nipsey Hussle's music was played in the Lakers' locker room. The musician was shot and killed in Los Angeles on Sunday.Thunder: Thunder center Steven Adams briefly left the game before halftime after being fouled by Moe Wagner. Adams told trainers he couldn't hear out of his right ear. He shot free throws before heading into the locker room. Adams started the second half. . Earlier Tuesday, the NBA rescinded the technical foul Russell Westbrook received Sunday in a loss to Dallas. It would've been Westbrook's 17th of the season, pushing him one away from a second one-game suspension. . The Thunder have trailed at halftime in 17 of their 20 games since the All-Star break. . Former Thunder guard Alex Abrines, who was released in early February, was at the game as a spectator.UP NEXTLakers: Host Golden State on Thursday night.Thunder: Host Detroit on Friday night.TIP-INSLakers: Power forward Kyle Kuzma missed his second consecutive game with left foot tendinitis. Kuzma was joined by LeBron James, Lonzo Ball, Brandon Ingram, Josh Hart and Tyson Chandler as Lakers missing the game due to injury. . Before the game, rapper Nipsey Hussle's music was played in the Lakers' locker room. The musician was shot and killed in Los Angeles on Sunday.Thunder: Thunder center Steven Adams briefly left the game before halftime after being fouled by Moe Wagner. Adams told trainers he couldn't hear out of his right ear. He shot free throws before heading into the locker room. Adams started the second half. . Earlier Tuesday, the NBA rescinded the technical foul Russell Westbrook received Sunday in a loss to Dallas. It would've been Westbrook's 17th of the season, pushing him one away from a second one-game suspension. . The Thunder have trailed at halftime in 17 of their 20 games since the All-Star break. . Former Thunder guard Alex Abrines, who was released in early February, was at the game as a spectator.UP NEXTLakers: Host Golden State on Thursday night.Thunder: Host Detroit on Friday night.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMINNEAPOLIS — Texas Tech did its defensive thing all night. Matt Mooney was money in the second half.Now the Red Raiders are riding into their first national championship game.Mooney scored 13 of his 22 points in the second half and Texas Tech clamped down on Michigan State all Saturday night in a 61-51 victory that sends the Red Raiders into Monday's title game against Virginia.The Red Raiders (31-6) traded body blows with the Spartans in a first half that lived up to its defensive-dominated billing on the gritty side of the Final Four.The Red Raiders started finding seams in the Spartans' defense in the second half and Mooney found his stroke, hitting three straight 3-pointers to put them up 12.But Michigan State (32-7) has Tom Izzo on its sideline, so the Spartans started cutting off those driving lanes and getting out on Mooney.The Spartans couldn't make any shots against Texas Tech's pack-it-in defense, but kept themselves in it with free throws, using a 13-2 run to pull within 52-51 with three minutes left.Then it was Jarrett Culver's turn. He was nearly nonexistent offensively in the first half, but came to life with Michigan State paying so much more attention to Mooney.The sophomore shooting guard came alive when the Red Raiders needed him most, scoring 6 straight points to keep the Spartans at bay.Already in uncharted territory, now the Red Raiders are one win away from their first national championship.They knew there would be some bumps and bruises to get past the Spartans.The Red Raiders like to think of themselves as street dogs and have played like they've been cornered since the bracket started, turning every game, every possession into a fight for oxygen.Of course, they were facing one of the masters of March stinginess, Izzo.The Spartans epitomize Big Ten brutality, bumping and bashing opponents into submission.The game between the defensive dictators lived up to its billing early.The Red Raiders hang their cowboy hat on forcing the ball away from the middle and the Spartans found no room to operate, making 7 of 23 shots in the first half.The Spartans' punish-you-inside approach worked, too. The Red Raiders shot 8 of 26 and Culver missed all six of his shots with the Spartans shadowing his every move.Texas Tech led the rock fight for a spot in the title game 23-21 at halftime.The Red Raiders made an adjustment in the second half, finding holes in Michigan State's defense driving to the basket. Texas Tech scored on a few of those layups and that started to open up the perimeter.Mooney took advantage, hitting three straight 3-pointers to put the Red Raiders up 48-35 midway through the second half.It got tighter than Texas Tech would have liked — Michigan State's defense will do that to a team — but Culver came to life at just the right time.Coming Monday: a defensive showdown for the ages.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byVirginia 85, Texas Tech 77 | OvertimeBy Billy WitzMINNEAPOLIS — A year after exiting the court as a picture of embarrassment, the first No. 1 seed to lose to a No. 16 in the men’s N.C.A.A. tournament, Virginia left wearing a crown on Monday night.The Cavaliers defeated Texas Tech, 85-77, in overtime for the university’s first national basketball championship, which carried with it immeasurable redemption.“Forget last year,” Virginia’s Ty Jerome said. “This is everything you dream of since you’re a little kid.”This title game was the first in 40 years between men’s teams that had never been there before. The last one was the showdown in which Magic Johnson’s Michigan State team beat Larry Bird and Indiana State in Salt Lake City.Monday night’s game did not offer anything near that level of star power. Instead, viewers got a matchup of teams that rely on a throwback style of play — methodical offense, lunch-pail defense and rosters long on experience.With a pair of pulverizing defenses and coaches who demanded diligent shot selection, the game began in sync with expectations — as something that looked like three dribbles and a cloud of sawdust. Five minutes in, that had produced a baseball score: 3-2, in favor of Texas Tech. And it took the Red Raiders more than seven minutes to score their first field goal.But the game quickly morphed into one for the ages, as the teams traded shot after shot down the stretch and into overtime until the Red Raiders could deliver no more.“Every time I thought we had it, they made a shot or made a play,” Texas Tech’s Matt Mooney said afterward, barely audible and staring at the ground as he sat at his locker. “It was a battle. We threw a punch, they threw a punch. They came right back at us every time.”It was fitting that a De’Andre Hunter 3-pointer from the corner, with 2 minutes 10 seconds left in overtime, put the Cavaliers ahead for good, 75-73.Hunter, who missed last year’s tournament with a broken wrist, carried Virginia at both ends of the court, harassing the Texas Tech star Jarrett Culver into 5-for-22 shooting and shrugging off his own struggles in the first half to finish with a career-high 27 points.The Cavaliers, who needed some miraculous moments to arrive here — a shot flicked into the basket at the buzzer by Mamadi Diakite to carry them into overtime against Purdue and Kyle Guy’s steel-nerved free throws with six-tenths of a second left to carry them past Auburn in Saturday’s semifinal — got some more on Monday night.With 14 seconds left in regulation play on Monday, Hunter took a pass from Jerome, who had penetrated into the lane, and knocked down a tying 3-pointer from the corner, in front of the Virginia bench.It was a particularly crushing shot for Texas Tech.The Red Raiders had crept back from a 10-point deficit midway through the second half, and they did so without much help from Tariq Owens, the starting forward who sprained his right ankle on Saturday and then received round-the-clock treatment and a painkilling shot to try to get through the title game. Owens played just 22 minutes.Still, when Norense Odiase sank two free throws with 22 seconds left to put Texas Tech ahead by 68-65, the Red Raiders were right where they wanted to be — turning to their defense, rated by KenPom as the best in the nation.“I thought we just needed one more stop,” Odiase said. “We pride ourselves on getting stops like that. I thought it was over.”But as Jerome drove into the lane, Culver left Hunter to help, and Mooney neglected to rotate off Kihei Clark, the freshman guard who is a reluctant shooter.“I was thinking I have to make this,” said Hunter, who missed seven of eight shots in the first half and scored 22 points in the second. “That’s exactly what I said in my head. I shot it. It felt good. It was on a line. And it went in.”Texas Tech had been rescued to that point by Brandone Francis, who scored 17 points off the bench, and by some heroic play from Odiase down the stretch. And though Culver came alive offensively late, scoring 15 points and delivering five assists and three blocks, he could not deliver quite enough. He missed two shots in the final seconds of regulation — the first with Hunter contesting — that would have delivered an unlikely title for Texas Tech, which was unranked at the start of the season.Hunter also had a hand in a pivotal defensive play in overtime, knocking the ball away from Davide Moretti and out of bounds with 1:06 remaining and Virginia clinging to a 75-73 lead. The officials ruled that the ball had gone off Hunter, who raked Moretti across the arm, but the call was overturned after a replay review, and the ball went to Virginia.Jerome made two foul shots with 41 seconds left, and Virginia, which made all 12 of its free throw attempts in overtime, never gave the ball back to Texas Tech with a chance for it to tie.To win the championship, Virginia not only had to fend off the determined Red Raiders and win thrillers against Purdue and Auburn. It also had to beat back ghosts from last year — when it was stunned by the University of Maryland, Baltimore County — and many questions about whether Coach Tony Bennett’s methodical system was suited to championship basketball.Bennett, whose father, Dick, took Wisconsin to the Final Four in 2000, had built Virginia into a powerhouse during his 10 years at the university but had advanced beyond the first weekend of the N.C.A.A tournament only twice before this season.Last season’s disappointment stung like no other.It lingered below the surface all season for the Cavaliers, who promised that they would be better for the experience.Guy, a starting guard, has used a photo of himself, bent over with his head in his hands while U.M.B.C. players celebrated around him, as his Twitter avatar for the last year. And when a reporter recently apologized for asking a question about that game, Guy told him it was not necessary.“If you have a conflict, try to hit it head on,” Guy, who scored 24 points, explained on Sunday. “That’s the only way you’re going to get past it, and that’s something that I’ve learned over the years: If you shy away from it, that’s where sometimes your anxiety will come in and haunt you. So I just wanted to hit it head on.”And so the Cavaliers did, and at the end of their redemptive journey, they learned what it was like to embrace something much more comforting — a gleaming trophy.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byAuburn 77, Kentucky 71 | OvertimeBy Joe DrapeKANSAS CITY, Mo. — On Saturday, Auburn Coach Bruce Pearl sat and listened as one after another of his top players acknowledged that neither Kansas nor North Carolina nor Kentucky had recruited them. No, they were not high school all-Americans; in fact, they were barely recruited at all.“I’m a mutt, too,” Pearl said. Proudly. Defiantly.On Sunday, those mutts, as their coach affectionately calls them, cut down the nets at the Sprint Center as Midwest Regional champions, sending the Tigers to the Final Four for the first time in program history. Proudly. Defiantly.After all, it took a sweep of the same teams that had overlooked them: Kansas, North Carolina and, finally, Kentucky in overtime, 77-71.It was a highflying, bruising 45 minutes between two Southeastern Conference rivals that earned Auburn a trip to Minneapolis to play Virginia in an N.C.A.A. national semifinal.It was a ticket punched without Chuma Okeke, Auburn’s one true blue chipper and the Tigers’ best player. Okeke, a 6-foot-8 sophomore, injured his left knee in Auburn’s victory over North Carolina and will have surgery on a torn anterior cruciate ligament on Tuesday in Alabama.In fact, it looked as if Okeke was irreplaceable as his teammates struggled through a first half in which they made only 3 of 11 shots from the beyond the arc, the bombs-away zone that has accounted for 43.5 percent of the team’s offense. Instead, they shot air balls and watched as free throws that looked good suddenly spun up and out of the basket. Still, they headed into the locker room at halftime trailing the Wildcats by 35-30.Then Okeke showed up. Before the bus pulled out Sunday morning, Pearl left it up to Okeke to decide where he wanted to watch the game. He was in terrible pain and decided to stay in the hotel with family members. He changed his mind late in the first half and appeared on the sidelines in a wheelchair.“I asked him before the game if he was going to come,” Bryce Brown said. “Emotionally, he said, ‘I’m in too much pain to come.’”Samir Doughty said Okeke’s appearance, after his initial reluctance, said a lot.“That goes to show how great of a teammate he is, honestly, for him to show up, knowing how much pain he was in,” Doughty said.Suddenly, the fifth-seeded Tigers found their range. Kentucky’s P. J. Washington and Keldon Johnson didn’t seem as long and elastic as they had, clogging passing lanes and pinning shots to the glass. Instead, Doughty put the handcuffs on Kentucky’s sharpshooter Tyler Herro, who finished with just 7 points.“He locked him up, and that was huge,” Pearl said.Now Kentucky was the flailing team. The ball clanged off the backboard, and the Tigers were far more aggressive at plucking rebounds.“They pressured us on defense,” said Washington, who led Kentucky with 28 points. “They tried to make all the catches hard, and they were boxing out and getting rebounds. They forced us to get one shot up and got back in transition and scored every time.”Three balls, as the Tigers like to call their choice of shot, were hard to come by, so Auburn guards Jared Harper and Brown took the ball straight to the Wildcats. Brown looked as if he had been plucked from a 1950s highlight reel with pull-up midrange jumpers.“I took what they gave me,” said Brown, who had 24 points. “We did this whole thing for Chuma, but we missed him. I knew I had to be big. No matter if I was going to go 0 for 20 or 20 for 20, I had to be big for my team.”Harper, barely 5 feet 11 inches, slashed and slipped through the Kentucky defense at breakneck speed, scoring 12 points in overtime.“It was a tough game, a tough fight,” said Harper, who finished with 26 points and was named the Midwest Region’s most outstanding player. “It’s a tribute to all my teammates and how hard we played this whole game. We stayed together to continue to do what we did.”The Auburn Tigers are no longer overlooked. They are no longer mutts.They go by a new name.“When your kids play hard, play unselfishly and together,” Pearl said. “Obviously, they’re the Cinderellas of this tournament.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressCHICAGO — Trailing by seven after missing too many shots in the first half, Notre Dame saw no reason to be rattled.The Fighting Irish figured they had only themselves to blame, that they would get on a roll and it just might carry them all the way back to the Final Four.Jackie Young scored 25 points and grabbed 10 rebounds, and defending national champion Notre Dame shook off a slow start to beat Stanford 84-68 in the Chicago Region final on Monday night."They kept their composure," coach Muffet McGraw said. "I didn't see a lot of frustration out there."The top-seeded Irish (34-3) got some payback for tournament losses to the second-seeded Cardinal (31-5) in 2016 and 2017 and earned their ninth trip to the Final Four.They will face UConn in Tampa Bay on Friday in a semifinal rematch from last year, when they beat the Huskies and then Mississippi State on last-second shots by Arike Ogunbowale to claim their second NCAA title.Young scored seven points in an 11-2 run to end the third quarter that gave Notre Dame a 52-46 lead.Ogunbowale finished with 21 points on 6-of-19 shooting, and the Irish pulled away in the second half for their 13th straight win after struggling to get their high-powered offense going in the first half."I think as a team collectively we just talked about (how) we have 20 more minutes to get back to the Final Four," Ogunbowale said. "And a lot of the mistakes and reasons that we were down were us. ... We knew the shots were going to be able to fall the second half, because the first half was rough. But if we just held on defense, it would get us back in the game. And with our shots falling, we could take the lead."Kiana Williams led Stanford with 20 points. Dijonai Carrington scored 18. Alanna Smith added 14 points and eight rebounds. But instead of advancing to the Final Four for the 14th time, the Cardinal came up short after winning their previous 12 games."This is a really, really close team, a really fun team, and I'm very proud of (them)," coach Tara VanDerveer said. "Only one team is going to be really happy at the end of the day, and I'm really proud of this team. And I don't think that one game should define — or even 20 minutes should define — the season for them. They've had a great year."IRISH GET GOINGTops in the nation in scoring at 89.2 points per game, Notre Dame made just 10 of 39 shots in the first half. But the Irish were 12 of 17 while outscoring the Cardinal 26-13 in the third.They were trailing 44-41 late in the quarter when they went on that 11-2 run.Young's scoop layup put Notre Dame on top 45-44 with just over two minutes left. She also drove for a layup in the closing minute to get the lead back up to six after Carrington made two free throws for Stanford.Young added two baskets early in the fourth before Ogunbowale tracked down a loose ball and broke for a three-point play, making it 59-48 with 7:47 remaining.MOVING ONThe game was just the sixth between two storied programs that each have Hall of Fame coaches and two NCAA championships. But it marked the fourth time in five years they were meeting in the Sweet 16 or Elite Eight.Notre Dame beat the Cardinal in the regional semifinals in 2015 with Stanford returning the favor the following season. The Cardinal knocked out the Irish in the 2017 Elite Eight, wiping out a 16-point deficit in the second half on the way to a 76-75 victory. Smith scored the go-ahead layup with 23 seconds remaining and Erica McCall swatted a last-second drive by Ogunbowale from behind to send Stanford to the Final Four.As the final seconds ticked away in this one, a large contingent of Irish fans chanted "We are ... ND! We are ... ND!"McGraw had two of her sisters and two college teammates in the crowd."They were all here, so that was quite a nice crowd for me," she said. "I'm so appreciative of the support that I get from people because they really helped me get through a long season."TOPPING 10,000Notre Dame's starting five of Ogunbowale, Young, Marina Mabrey, Jessica Shepard and Brianna Turner became the first in the women's or men's games to combine for 10,000 career points. They had 78 in the game, giving them 10,070 in all.BIG PICTUREStanford: After shooting a season-low 25% while outlasting Missouri State 55-46 in the Sweet 16, Stanford was a little better in this one at just under 40%. But the Cardinal didn't make enough baskets to keep the season going.Notre Dame: Even though they were out of sync in the early going, the Irish did enough down the stretch to come away with the victory.UP NEXTNotre Dame is 12-37 against Connecticut, including an 89-71 loss at Purcell Pavilion on Dec. 2. Notre Dame was 1 for 12 on 3-pointers in that game.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressSAN ANTONIO — The Sacramento Kings will miss the playoffs for the 13th straight season, yet they are seeing definitive signs of progress.Completing the franchise's first sweep of San Antonio a day after being eliminated from the postseason is a big step forward for the young Kings.Buddy Hield scored 26 points and the Kings snapped an 11-game skid in San Antonio, holding on in the fourth quarter and beating the Spurs 113-106 Sunday night.Not even Sacramento's teams that made eight straight playoff appearances beginning in 1999 can claim they went undefeated against the five-time NBA champions. Completing the sweep in resilient fashion is a boost psychologically for a roster that includes 11 players with three years of experience or less."When you do something that has never been done before, those kinds of things stick with guys," Sacramento coach Dave Joerger said.Willie Cauley-Stein added 17 points and all of the Kings' starters scored in double figures. Bogdan Bogdanovic added 15 points off the bench.LaMarcus Aldridge had 27 points and 18 rebounds as San Antonio lost for the fourth time in six games. DeMar DeRozan finished with 16 points and Rudy Gay had 18. The Spurs remained seventh in the Western Conference.The Kings had lost two straight and were playing less than 24 hours after being eliminated from the postseason in a loss to Houston on Saturday afternoon. That loss clinched the Spurs' 22nd straight postseason appearance.San Antonio came out listless following the playoff clincher and didn't rally until the second half.Spurs coach Gregg Popovich was ejected with 9:04 remaining in the third quarter after charging onto the court to berate official Tyler Ford for an out-of-bounds call on Derrick White. On the previous possession, Ford called White for an offensive foul after a Kings player leapt onto him attempting to block a 3-pointer by Bryn Forbes. Ford then called the ball out of bounds against the Spurs when White stripped Harrison Barnes under the basket and the ball appeared to roll off Barnes' leg. Popovich immediately charged the court, drawing the first technical, and then kept yelling at Ford, earning his second.The technical temporarily invigorated the listless Spurs, who went on a 10-7 run after Hield made two free throws following the ejection.Sacramento did not let the elimination affect its performance or spirits against San Antonio."They're still playing with a sense of urgency, trying to get the most out of it," DeRozan said. "It's just not for this season but going into the summer and next year."Kings veteran Corey Brewer made a pair of free throws to give Sacramento its largest lead at 101-89 with 7:19 remaining. San Antonio rallied, capturing a 106-105 lead on DeRozan's floating jumper with 2:53 remaining."We didn't die on the vine or feel sorry for ourselves," Popovich said.DeRozan's bucket was San Antonio's final points as Sacramento forced five missed shots."This team's got a lot of resilience," said Barnes, who had 15 points. "We keep attacking."TIP-INSKings: Rookie Marvin Bagley missed the game with a stomach illness. Bagley sat after matching a season-high 10 field goals while scoring 20 points. He also made 10 field goals while scoring a season-high 32 points against Phoenix on Feb. 10. . Sacramento's last win in San Antonio came Jan. 20, 2012, as Tyreke Evans had 23 points and 11 rebounds in an 88-86 victory. The Kings have won two straight at home over the Spurs. . Sacramento had 20 assists, ending its streak of five straight games with 25-plus assists.Spurs: Aldridge's 18 points in the first quarter were second only to the 19 he scored against Boston on March 24 for the most points in the opening period for the Spurs this season. ... . Aldridge has 22 games with at least 20 points and 10 rebounds, the most he has had with the Spurs.STILL PLAYINGSacramento has finished below .500 every season since going 44-38 in 2006 ,when it finished eighth in the Western Conference.The Kings can finish .500 by winning three of their final five games. Hield believes Sacramento can accomplish that feat."For sure, without a doubt," Hield said. "We've just got to come out and be ready to play. We can't overlook and say the season's over. We have a goal, let's get that."I think that will leave a good mark on the organization and a good mark heading into next season."UP NEXTKings: Host Houston on Tuesday night.Spurs: Host Atlanta on Tuesday night.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressTOKYO — It can't dribble, let alone slam dunk, but Toyota's basketball robot hardly ever misses a free throw or a 3-pointer.The 207-centimeter (six-foot, 10-inch)-tall machine made five of eight 3-point shots in a demonstration in a Tokyo suburb Monday, a ratio its engineers say is worse than usual.Toyota Motor Corp.'s robot, called Cue 3, computes as a three-dimensional image where the basket is, using sensors on its torso, and adjusts motors inside its arm and knees to give the shot the right angle and propulsion for a swish.Efforts in developing human-shaped robots underline a global shift in robotics use from pre-programmed mechanical arms in limited situations like factories to functioning in the real world with people.The 2017 version of the robot was designed to make free throws.Yudai Baba, a basketball player likely representing host Japan at the 2020 Tokyo Olympics, took part in the demonstration and also missed a couple of shots. If the robot could learn a few more tricks, he was ready to accept the robot on the team, he said."We human players are still better for now," he said.Right after missing, the robot slumped over. It wasn't disappointment, but a temporary power failure.Cue 3's name is supposed to reflect the idea the technology can serve as a cue, or signal of great things to come, according to Toyota.The company plays down how the technology might prove useful. It's more about boosting morale among engineers, making them open to ideas and challenges.In making the robot's outer covering something like that of an armadillo, the engineers said they were just trying to avoid the white metallic look often seen on robots.The maker of the Camry sedan, Prius hybrid and Lexus luxury models has shown off various robots, including one that played a violin. Another, resembling R2-D2 of Star Wars, slides around and picks up things. At Monday's demonstration, it handed the basketball to Cue 3.Experts say robots that can mimic human movements, even doing them better, could prove useful in various ways, including picking crops, making deliveries, and working in factories and warehouses.Stanford University Professor Oussama Khatib, who directs the university's robotics lab, said Cue 3 demonstrates complex activities such as using sensors and nimble computation in real-time in what he called "visual feedback."To shoot hoops, the robot must have a good vision system, be able to compute the ball's path then execute the shot, he said in a telephone interview."What Toyota is doing here is really bringing the top capabilities in perception with the top capabilities in control to have robots perform something that is really challenging," Khatib said.Japan has been aggressive in developing humanoids, including those that do little more than offer cute companionship.Toyota's rival Honda Motor Co. has its Asimo, a culmination of research into creating a walking robot that started in the 1980s. It not only can run, but also recognize faces, avoid obstacles, shake hands, pour a drink and carry a tray.When will such robots be able to slam dunk, a feat that will require running, dribbling and jumping?"In 20 years, with technological advances," said Tomohiro Nomi, a Toyota engineer who worked on Cue 3.___On Instagram at https://www.instagram.com/yurikageyama/?hl=enAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMINNEAPOLIS — The buzzer sounded and Tom Izzo walked stoically across the Final Four floor to shake hands with Texas Tech counterpart Chris Beard, no doubt complimenting him on a fine defensive performance.It's a walk Izzo has made a lot over the past two decades.Frustrated all night by the Red Raiders' stingy defense, and unable to get guards Cassius Winston and Matt McQuaid into much rhythm, Michigan State fell once again on college basketball's grandest stage. The Spartans' 61-51 defeat in the national semifinals Saturday night was their sixth straight trip to the tournament's final weekend without hoisting a championship trophy.It also continued a maddening run of disappointment for the Big Ten, which hasn't had a national champion since Mateen Cleaves and the Spartans won Izzo's only title in 2000.The Spartans certainly had their chances Saturday night.They trailed just 23-21 at halftime in the kind of defensive slugfest everyone anticipated, and it was still a nip-and-tuck game early in the second half. And even when the Red Raiders pushed the lead to 48-35 — their biggest of the game — the Spartans never quite seemed out of it.The Big Ten's regular-season and tournament champions kept pecking away, including a series of free throws that nipped into Texas Tech's lead. When Aaron Henry followed two foul shots of his own with a big basket with 2:51 left, the deficit was down to 52-51 and the green-clad fans were stirring.That was the closest the Spartans got down the stretch.Jarrett Culver answered with a scooping layup for the Red Raiders, and Winston committed a silly offensive foul at the other end to give the ball back. McQuaid missed a wide open 3-pointer on Michigan State's next trip down floor, and Culver added a free throw to extend the Red Raiders' lead.The Spartans' last chance to make it close ended when Xavier Tillman was stripped by Texas Tech big man Norense Odiase with 1:19 to go, and the Red Raiders efficiently put the game away.Izzo shook Beard's hand as the Red Raiders set their sights on Virginia in the final.The defeats Michigan State has endured in the Final Four over the years have come in all flavors: They've fallen as high seeds expected to do great things and low seeds that surpassed expectations, and run into buzz-saws such as Duke and Arizona that were loaded with future NBA prospects and dropped down-to-the-wire nail-biters to the likes of Gordon Hayward and Butler.On Saturday night, they lost to a team that beat them at their own game.Izzo prides himself on toughness — in the old days, he'd suit up his guys in shoulder pads and helmets in practice. Yet the Red Raiders beat Michigan State to the punch all night, harassing Sparty on the perimeter and rendering Tillman and fellow forward Kenny Goins ineffective in the paint.Michigan State wound up shooting 32 percent from the field, went 7 of 24 from the 3-point arc and desperately could have used Joshua Langford, their forward they lost to a season-ending injury.Winston, who played all 40 minutes, tried to rescue the Spartans in the second half. The Big Ten player of the year wound up with 16 points but he needed 16 shots to get there.Nobody else gave him much help, either.The result was a national championship appearance for Texas Tech in its first trip to the Final Four, and another weekend that ended in disappointment for Izzo and the Spartans.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSYDNEY — Asian shares inched up to seven-month highs on Monday as investors cheered a rebound in U.S. payrolls and hints of more stimulus in China, though there was some caution ahead of what is likely to be a tough U.S. earnings season.In a document published on the central government's website late on Sunday, Beijing said it would step up a policy of targeted cuts to banks' required reserve ratios to encourage financing for small and medium-sized businesses.Chinese blue chips climbed 1.4 percent to territory not visited since March last year. MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan followed by gaining 0.4 percent to its highest since August.Japan's Nikkei also made its high of the year so far and was last up 0.1 percent. E-Mini futures for the S&P 500 were little moved.On Wall Street, the benchmark S&P 500 closed higher for its seventh trading day in a row last week, the longest winning streak since October 2017. [.N]However, a test looms as major U.S. banks kick off what analysts expect to be the first quarter of contracting corporate earnings since 2016.JPMorgan Chase & Co and Wells Fargo & Co will get the ball rolling on Friday.Minutes of the Federal Reserve's last policy meeting are due out on Wednesday."Markets will be looking at just how dovish the FOMC has become," wrote analysts at TD Securities in a note. "We put a very low but not zero chance on a rate cut discussion; conversely rate hikes are still on the horizon for the majority of Fed officials.""The minutes are likely to show peak dovishness in terms of nervousness about the outlook."JOBS RELIEFThere was a huge sigh of relief globally on Friday when the U.S. payrolls report showed a solid 196,000 rise in jobs in March, while annual wage growth slowed a little to 3.2 percent."This data assuages both the downside and upside fears," said Alan Ruskin, global head of G10 FX Strategy at Deutsche Bank. "Fears of soft growth are assuaged. On the upside, the wage data does not point to further acceleration that would threaten inflation.""It plays to idea that the U.S. economy remains reasonably robust, and does not justify any rate cut expectations over say the next six months, and is to that extent going to play to buying U.S. dollar dips versus the majors."The dollar was flat at 97.329 against a basket of currencies on Monday, but remained short of the March peak at 97.710 which marks major chart resistance.The dollar held its recent gain on the Japanese yen at 111.52, but again needs to clear the March top of 112.12 to spark a true uptrend.The euro has been undermined by a string of dismal data out of Europe and idled at $1.1218 not far from its recent 20-month trough at $1.1174.Sterling had troubles of its own at $1.3046 as time ticks away to Britain's departure from the European Union on April 12, with no deal agreed.Prime Minister Theresa May must come up with a new plan to secure a delay from EU leaders at a summit on Wednesday.In commodity markets, spot gold was a fraction firmer at $1,296.31 per ounce.Oil prices rose to their highest levels since Nov. 2018, driven by OPEC's ongoing supply cuts and U.S. sanctions against Iran and Venezuela. [O/R]U.S. crude was last up 38 cents at $63.46 a barrel, while Brent crude futures rose 39 cents to $70.73. (Editing by Sam Holmes)Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe Golden State Warriors vented their frustration over a controversial loss in their previous game on the playoff-hopeful Charlotte Hornets on Sunday night, using a 71-point first half to pave the way to a 137-90 blowout in Oakland, Calif.Stephen Curry (25 points) and Klay Thompson (24) combined for 11 3-pointers, helping the Warriors win a game in which DeMarcus Cousins was ejected in the second quarter for a flagrant foul.The win, coupled with Denver's surprising home loss to Washington, pushed the Warriors (52-24) one game ahead of the Nuggets (51-25) atop the Western Conference on the eve of their showdown Tuesday night at Golden State.The Warriors improved to 18-6 this season in the first game following a loss, which on this occasion was a 131-130 overtime affair Friday night at Minnesota that featured two questionable calls against Golden State in the final five seconds of the extra session.Wizards 95, Nuggets 90Troy Brown Jr. scored 24 points, Thomas Bryant had 20 points and 14 rebounds, and Washington dealt Denver a home loss. The Nuggets had won eight of 10 and fell one game behind Golden State for the best record in the Western Conference.Jabari Parker also had 20 points for Washington, which had lost six of seven. Bradley Beal added 17.Denver's Nikola Jokic had 23 points and 14 rebounds before being ejected after receiving two quick technical fouls for arguing a non-foul call with 3:46 remaining. Paul Millsap had 13 points and 16 rebounds.Clippers 113, Grizzlies 96Danilo Gallinari scored 27 points with 15 rebounds and Montrezl Harrell added 20 points as Los Angeles moved into a tie for fifth place in the Western Conference with a victory over visiting Memphis.Lou Williams scored 17 points and JaMychal Green added 15 as the Clippers (47-31) drew even with the Utah Jazz, six games behind the first-place Golden State Warriors, but just two games behind the fourth-place Portland Trail Blazers.Delon Wright scored 20 points and Chandler Parsons added 17 as the Grizzlies lost for the fourth time in their last six games and for the sixth time in their last nine games. Memphis has already been eliminated from playoff consideration.Kings 113, Spurs 106Buddy Hield scored 26 points to lead seven players in double figures as visiting Sacramento clipped San Antonio, completing a three-game sweep of the season series. The Spurs are already guaranteed a spot in the postseason for the 22nd straight season, tying an NBA record.The Kings trailed 106-105 after San Antonio's DeMar DeRozan hit a jumper with 2:53 to play. Sacramento responded with the final eight points of the game, capped by two free throws by Hield with 16.7 seconds left, to snap a two-game losing streak.Willie Cauley-Stein added 17 points for the Kings, with Bogdan Bogdanovic and Harrison Barnes scoring 15 each, De'Aaron Fox hitting for 12 points, and Nemanja Bjelica and Yogi Ferrell pumping in 10 points apiece. Kosta Koufos led the Kings with 11 rebounds.Mavericks 106, Thunder 103Dwight Powell's dunk with 21 seconds left gave Dallas the lead for good as it survived a wild win over host Oklahoma City.Powell took a dish from Jalen Brunson, who hit a go-ahead basket on the Mavericks' previous possession, and slammed the ball home for the fifth lead change in a frantic final two minutes. Dennis Schroder and Paul George each missed would-be go-ahead 3-pointers on the Thunder's next trip down the floor.Trey Burke scored 25 points for the Mavericks, who snapped a two-game losing streak and won for just the fifth time in their last 23 games. Brunson scored 18 points while Devin Harris had 15 points and Dwight Powell added 11 points.Hawks 136, Bucks 135Rookie Trae Young hit the game-winning jumper at the buzzer in overtime to give Atlanta a win over visiting Milwaukee. It was the first time Atlanta beat Milwaukee in three tries this season and broke a six-game losing streak to the Bucks.Milwaukee's Sterling Brown, who scored a season-high 27, had put the Bucks ahead with 1.1 seconds remaining with a driving basket. That negated the go-ahead bucket that Young had scored with 6.8 seconds remaining on the previous possess.Atlanta got 24 points from Justin Anderson and 23 points each from John Collins and Alex Len. Anderson and Collins each had 12 rebounds. Young had 12 points and 16 assists. The Bucks were playing without Giannis Antetokounmpo (sprained ankle) and Khris Middleton (sore groin).Lakers 130, Pelicans 102JaVale McGee had 23 points and 16 rebounds as visiting Los Angeles routed New Orleans in a matchup of short-handed teams. Los Angeles was playing its first game since announcing Saturday that LeBron James would not play again this season because of a groin injury.Former Pelican Rajon Rondo added 24 points and 12 assists, Alex Caruso came off the bench to score 23 points, Kentavious Caldwell-Pope added 19 points and Reggie Bullock 18 as the Lakers outscored the Pelicans 69-40 in the second half.Former Laker Julius Randle scored 17 to lead New Orleans, which lost for the 10th time in 12 games. Christian Wood added 15 points and 11 rebounds, Jahlil Okafor scored 15, Solomon Hill had 14 and Cheick Diallo had his ninth double-double with 12 points and 10 rebounds. Anthony Davis (back spasms) was held out by New Orleans.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byVirginia 63, Auburn 62 | Final FourBy Marc TracyMINNEAPOLIS — There is winning while being outplayed. Next there is snatching victory from the jaws of defeat. Then there are several other gradients of good fortune. And only then is there what Virginia did on Saturday night at the Final Four.Its 63-62 victory stunned Auburn, which minutes before the end appeared to have the game sewn up, and sent the top-seeded Cavaliers to their first national championship game. They will play Texas Tech, which upset Michigan State on Saturday night, in the final on Monday night. But the way Virginia got there was something to behold.[Read about Texas Tech’s upset of Michigan State here.]Giving up a 10-point lead in the last five minutes by letting fifth-seeded Auburn score, eventually, 14 straight points, the Cavaliers then cut the Tigers’ lead to a single point when the junior Kyle Guy hit a 3-pointer with 7 seconds left.Fouling immediately, Virginia put Auburn guard Jared Harper on the line, where he made his first free throw and missed his second. After a timeout, and a double-dribble violation that replays showed the referees missed, and another time-wasting foul by Auburn, Virginia got Guy a relatively open look in the left corner at the buzzer. Guy missed the shot. The game appeared to be over. Auburn had won.But before Guy returned to the floor, a whistle! A foul. And sure enough, on the television replays, there was the Auburn junior Samir Doughty defending Guy, arms straight up but his body colliding with Guy’s as he released his shot. In other words, it was not the kind of foul that necessarily affected the shot’s trajectory. But it was a foul nonetheless.Guy, an 81.8 percent free-throw shooter now presented with three free throws to give his team the lead, and almost certainly the victory, made the first two. Auburn called a timeout. The teams huddled, and then returned to the court. Guy made the third. There was 0.6 of a second left, not enough for Auburn to so much as get off a shot before the buzzer. Game over. Virginia wins.“I think it was a tough call,” Harper said afterward, “but that’s not where we lost the game.”“This will be a memorable game,” added Auburn Coach Bruce Pearl, “and I’d like it to be remembered for a great game. Let’s not remember this game because of just how it ended.”Virginia (34-3), which was appearing in its first Final Four since the N.C.A.A. tournament expanded to a 64-team bracket in 1985, will play for the championship only one year after its team became the first and only No. 1 seed to lose to a No. 16 seed in the history of the men’s tournament. The Cavaliers have carried that loss around all season; now they are a game from atoning for it in the best possible way.“To think this time last year we were starting our spring workouts,” Virginia’s Ty Jerome said, “and to still be playing at this point in the season with, after tonight, one other team in the whole country on the stage that you dreamed about since you were a little kid, it’s an unreal feeling. We’re going to do everything we can to finish the job.”It is not an accident that Virginia won at a higher clip than any other team this year, even if it is infrequently pretty and never flashy, and even though, in its regional final against Purdue, Virginia’s win required an improbable buzzer-beating shot and overtime. That’s because Virginia does the boring things well: takes care of the ball on offense, stays disciplined on defense and does what it is supposed to do.Guy’s late 3-point shot (the one he made) resulted from an elaborate play involving a series of screens. The even later 3-point shot (the one he missed while being fouled) came on an out-of-bounds play, in which the redshirt junior Mamadi Diakite was the first look inside for a lob — similar to the catch-and-shoot attempt with which he sent the Purdue game to overtime. When he was not open, the play turned into, as Diakite put it afterward, an informal play known as “Kyle Get Open.”In their first Final Four, the Tigers (30-10) had acquitted themselves well. Coming out of halftime, Auburn led by 3. Virginia had been 28-0 when leading at the half this season, but only 5-3 when it trailed. Auburn was playing how it wanted to play, with guards Harper and Bryce Brown driving to the basket early in the shot clock and attempting to finish at the rim or kicking the ball out for a deep shot by a teammate.But Auburn squandered that lead over the first five minutes of the second half, and it trailed by 10 when it called timeout with a little more than five minutes left after Jerome hit a jumper as the shot clock expired — the Platonic ideal of an offensive possession for Virginia’s deliberate offense — the sophomore De’Andre Hunter scored from the post and then Jerome hit his fourth 3-pointer of the game.Hunter finished with 14 points, and Jerome led all scorers with 21 points, and added 6 assists and 9 rebounds. Diakite led all players with five blocks.Auburn’s comeback was led by Brown, who hit his second, third and fourth 3-pointers of the game during the late surge. He finished with 12 points.“We just figured we had to get stops,” Harper said. “We didn’t start the second half that well defensively. We let them do what they wanted. Being able to climb back in the game and get in that position was great for us.”The production was overdue for Auburn, one of the top 3-point-shooting teams, after it went 3 for 14 from beyond the arc in the first half against Virginia’s deep-shot-denying, pack-line defense. The Tigers finished 9 for 31 on 3-point attempts overall.Virginia did not do itself any favors as its lead first dwindled and then disappeared. It turned the ball over on a shot-clock violation. It gave up two offensive rebounds. Hunter committed an offensive-goaltending violation. Diakite missed two free throws.Trailing with less than 30 seconds left and not yet in the bonus, Virginia had to foul three times before Auburn finally went to the free-throw line, where Anfernee McLemore hit both free throws.Then it was Guy’s 3-pointer, Harper’s free throw, then the shot in the corner, the foul, and the ending, unforgettable and devastating.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressSALT LAKE CITY — Utah's team approach was too good for Kemba Walker's one-man show.Donovan Mitchell scored 23 points, Rudy Gobert had 18 points and 18 rebounds, and the surging Jazz overcame Walker's 47 points to beat the Charlotte Hornets 111-102 on Monday night."We are getting connected," Utah's Ricky Rubio said. "Even with guys out, we are moving the ball and raising our level even more."Gobert, who is second in the league with 62 double-doubles, controlled the paint as the Jazz built enough of a lead to withstand Walker, who scored 22 points in the fourth quarter."We had a great game defensively besides the last few minutes when Kemba just went off," said Gobert, who had three blocked shots.Walker was unstoppable in the last part of the fourth period but the game had essentially been decided. After a slow start, he finished 15 of 28 from the floor and 13 of 15 from the line."I did get into a good rhythm. I was trying to get downhill, trying to get to the free throw line. Made a few 3. It was a little too late," Walker said.Meanwhile, the Jazz did it by committee with 30 assists on their 38 made baskets. Utah continues to feed on teams with losing records, though Charlotte is desperate to make the playoffs."It's hard in this league to win, so we don't care who we're playing. It's more about us playing the level we want to play and we're reaching that," said Rubio, who had 20 points and 13 assists.The Jazz have given up big games this season to guards such as Devin Booker (59 points), Derrick Rose (50) and now Walker. In fact, Walker's 88.7% percent of the starting lineup's points is the highest percentage by a single player since the statistic was first recorded in 1970, per Elias Sports Bureau."I'm not saying we want people to score 50 on us, but we want to protect the paint and protect from the shooters," Gobert said. "If a guy is able to handle the ball and hit contested shots all night, I just clap my hands. ... I just care if we win."And the Jazz are doing a lot of winning these days.In the midst of their best stretch of the season, the Jazz have won 10 of 11 and are two games back of Houston and Portland for the third and fourth slots in the Western Conference playoffs."We just got to keep it going. We are just focusing on game at a time and it's working," Mitchell said.The Hornets are still in the race for the final spot in the Eastern Conference but their hopes grow slimmer with each loss. Charlotte trails Miami by three games for eighth place with five games left."There's still a chance, and as long as there is still a chance (we have to) keep fighting," Jeremy Lamb said.Charlotte lost by 47 to Golden State on Sunday and gave a better effort in the second half of its back-to-back but never seriously challenged the Jazz.Joe Ingles scored 15, all on 3-pointers, and Thabo Sefalosha added 14, his season high.Charlotte only managed 29.8% first-half shooting and the Jazz led 52-39 at the half. Only with their flurry at the end, Charlotte reached 40 percent for the game.Lamb had been in a bit of a slump, shooting 14 of 46 the last five games, but became the only scoring option beyond Walker for Charlotte in this one. He tallied 23 points and Willy Hernangomez had 15.Charlotte experimented with variety of lineups as 11 players saw action in the first quarter. The Hornets missed 20 of their first 21 attempts behind the arc.TIP-INSHornets: Cody Zeller, who hasn't played since March 9, sat with a sore left knee, but coach James Borrego wouldn't say he'd played his last game this season. "We haven't made a ruling on that yet," Borrego said. ... The Hornets missed their first eight 3-pointers and went 1 for 16 in the first half. ... Besides Walker, the rest of Charlotte's starting lineup had six total points.Jazz: Regular starting power forward Derrick Favors missed the game with back spasms and Kyle Korver was out with knee soreness. Jae Crowder started and didn't score in 24 minutes. ... The Jazz are 19-4 in games with at least 30 assists. ... Utah is 16-0 when holding opponents under 30 percent from beyond the arc.YOU'VE COME A LONG WAY, BIG GUYGobert tied Karl Malone (1987-88) for most double-doubles by a 
Jazz player in a season. To imagine Gobert possibly topping the Hall of Famer is almost unfathomable to some teammates wh
o saw him as a rookie or second-year player."When I first got here, he couldn't catch, he couldn't run. He couldn't do much of anything," Ingles said. "But he's gotten better and better every year."UP NEXTHornets: Visit New Orleans to complete their four-game road trip on Wednesday.Jazz: Visit Phoenix on Wednesday night.Advertisement