AdvertisementSupported byBy Ben ShpigelThe floater banked off the backboard, then the rim, and then in came a right hand, redirecting the ball toward the basket one last time — toward a climax of a riveting game between Duke and Central Florida, a seismic upset in an N.C.A.A. tournament that has unspooled mostly to form, toward the biggest victory in a program’s history.It rolled around the rim as if magnetized.“My heart stopped beating,” said Javin DeLaurier of Duke.It took half a revolution around the hoop.“It was up there forever, I felt like, in slow motion,” said Aubrey Dawkins of Central Florida.And then it slid off.“I mean, heartbreak,” Dawkins said.That is how close No. 9 Central Florida was to ousting Duke, the top overall seed and presumptive favorite, and upending the East Region, not to mention the entire tournament. Instead, as the Blue Devils hugged one another and slapped high-fives after a 77-76 win, the Knights stood there sobbing, disbelieving.“That’s as high a level of any team that we’ve played against all year,” Duke Coach Mike Krzyzewski said. “They were men. Aubrey wasn’t outstanding; he was magnificent.”It was not only Dawkins — who grew up in Durham, N.C., around Duke, where his father, Johnny, now the coach at Central Florida, assisted and played for Krzyzewski — who was magnificent, finishing with 32 points. Each team’s best players — Tacko Fall and Dawkins for the Knights, the freshmen R. J. Barrett and Zion Williamson for Duke — starred throughout and played pivotal roles in what was a spellbinding conclusion.The Knights, who trailed by as many as 8 in the second half, went on a 15-4 run punctuated by Fall’s dunk with 2 minutes 9 seconds remaining to go ahead, 74-70. As play stopped so officials could review whether the initial attempt grazed the rim before the shot clock expired, Krzyzewski used the unofficial timeout to deliver his team a pithy directive.“When he looks at you and tells you that you’re made for this moment,” Williamson said, “it’s like the most confidence you can be given.”Central Florida turned over the ball on its next possession, misfiring on an alley-oop, and Cam Reddish of Duke responded by making a 3-pointer. B. J. Taylor’s two free throws extended the Knights’ lead to 76-73 with 45 seconds left, and then Williamson acted on his coach’s words. With four fouls, he drove into Fall, the Knights’ 7-foot-6 center, and invited contact. Fall fouled out, and his absence proved critical when Barrett was able to swoop in on Williamson’s missed free throw and score to put Duke ahead by 77-76.Williamson scored a team-high 32 points, and, according to ESPN Stats and Information, his 57 points are tied with Kevin Durant for the most points by a freshman across his first two tournament games.“The will to win of Zion and R. J., you can’t measure it,” Krzyzewski said, adding, “What they did right at the end of that game in willing us to win was just absolutely sensational.”In the immediate aftermath, after Taylor’s shot clanged off the glass and Dawkins’s putback hung tantalizingly on the rim, Krzyzewski shared a long embrace with Johnny Dawkins and told him he loved him.“It’s like a yin and a yang here,” Krzyzewski said, “because they were deserving of winning.”But when the East Region semifinals begin in Washington on Friday night, Central Florida will not be there. Duke will face No. 4 Virginia Tech because of an enthralling 40 minutes that came down to the vagaries of a ball on a rim.Rarely do all of the tournament’s top eight seeds make the regional semifinal round, but Virginia’s 63-51 victory over Oklahoma ensured that it would happen this year for the first time since 2009. With all four No. 3 seeds advancing, the round of 16 will include 14 of the top 16 seeds, which has not happened also since 2009, when 14 did.In this tournament of chalk, Virginia, which will face 12th-seeded Oregon in the South Region semifinals on Thursday night, remains on track to face its Atlantic Coast Conference rival North Carolina. The Tar Heels mauled Washington by 81-59 to move on to the Midwest semifinals against Auburn on Friday night, never trailing because Coby White never let them trail.In the first half, White, a freshman guard, busted the Huskies’ zone by making four 3-pointers in five minutes. Though Washington focused more on him in the second half, White scythed through its defense, on one occasion zipping from one end of the court to another, dribbling behind his back before scoring off the glass.The Tar Heels, as ever, are loaded inside, with size and athleticism that enables them to outrebound Washington by 48-24, and forward Luke Maye had 20 points and 14 boards. It was White, though, the most exciting player in the tournament whose name does not rhyme with Flyin’ Williamson, who runs their hyperkinetic offense, directing the Tar Heels at a speed at which they thrive.Tennessee’s first two games have shown that the Volunteers are the biggest underachiever still alive or the worst underachiever. The Volunteers played like the tournament’s most dangerous No. 2 seed in the first half against Iowa, and then looked like the most vulnerable No. 2 after halftime.Thanks to a dominant overtime by Grant Williams, the Volunteers, who had blown a 25-point first-half lead to No. 10 Iowa, avoided what would have been one of the most egregious collapses in N.C.A.A. tournament history. Instead, they edged the Hawkeyes, 83-77, to reach the South Region semifinals.“I feel like a fifth grader who just ate Skittles,” Williams said. “Just want to say that.”Williams, the Southeastern Conference’s two-time player of the year, dazzled in overtime, scoring six of Tennessee’s first nine points. He also contributed a critical steal for the Volunteers, who will play third-seeded Purdue on Thursday night in Louisville, Ky. It will be their first trip to the round of 16 since 2014, when they crashed the tournament as a No. 11 seed.This season, they have rated among the nation’s best since November, even spending a month as the top-ranked team, but their performance across their two games in Columbus, Ohio, has challenged their standing as a championship contender in a region fronted by Virginia.Tennessee toted into the tournament painful memories of last season’s exit, when as a No. 3 seed it was upset in the second round by Loyola-Chicago. The Volunteers struggled in a 77-70 first-round victory against No. 15 Colgate, and Coach Rick Barnes said Sunday that he thought his team has carried “a little extra stress” to go deeper this year. That stress seemed absent in the first half against Iowa, when they complemented swarming defense with inside-out balance, racing to a 44-19 lead.Trailing by 21 at halftime, Iowa opted not to run with Tennessee in the second half. Slowing down the pace, the Hawkeyes fed the ball inside more to Tyler Cook and Luka Garza. Jordan Bohannon’s three free throws — on what seemed a questionable foul call on Lamonte Turner, who appeared to have blocked a 3-point attempt cleanly — tied the score for the first time, at 67-67, with 2:39 remaining, and then Iowa overcame a 4-point deficit in the final 58 seconds to send the game into overtime.Had the Hawkeyes won, they would have matched Brigham Young’s comeback against Iona in 2012.“We know it’s not going to be perfection — it never is,” Iowa Coach Fran McCaffery said. “But what you hope to get is a perfect effort. And that’s what we got.”The other three No. 2 seeds — Michigan, Michigan State and Kentucky — won their second-round games by an average of 13.7 points, and only Kentucky was seriously tested, by Wofford. If the Volunteers are to progress to their first Final Four, they must play better than they have across their first 85 minutes of play — and they know it.“The way we started the game, that’s the team we win,” guard Admiral Schofield said. “The way we finished the game, we can’t have that. That’s what got us beat throughout the season. The team you saw in the first half is what won 31 games. We have to be consistent in that aspect. But this time of year, it’s about winning, about surviving and advancing.”Advertisement