AdvertisementSupported byBy Billy WitzMINNEAPOLIS — Here it was, the first Final Four appearance for Texas Tech, and a recipe for disaster was unfolding. The Red Raiders’ best player, Jarrett Culver, was missing in action, unable to locate his shot or his confidence. Their most dynamic player, Tariq Owens, had injured his ankle and had to be helped off the court. Their double-digit lead had been cut to a single point.No matter, though, for Texas Tech.The Red Raiders leaned on their defense, a deep reservoir of resolve and the cocksure shooting of guard Matt Mooney to hold off Michigan State, 61-51, and advance to the N.C.A.A. championship game on Monday night.Texas Tech (31-6) will meet Virginia (34-3), which stunned Auburn and, like the Red Raiders, will be making its first trip to the title game.[Read about Virginia’s victory over Auburn here.]Helping Texas Tech through was Mooney, who scored 22 points — including three second half 3-pointers — and a defense that has carried the team this far.And then, when Texas Tech needed him most, Culver delivered too, scoring two baskets late, including a 3-pointer from the top of the arc that pushed the Red Raiders lead to 58-51 with 58 seconds left and repelled the final Michigan State charge.“We threw a lot of punches out there tonight,” Texas Tech Coach Chris Beard said. “We battled. We contested.”Michigan State was the only team to arrive at this year’s Final Four that might have been expected not to have jitters. Texas Tech and Auburn had never before reached a Final Four, and Virginia had not been since 1984. But the Spartans are almost placeholders in the event, having been eight times in the last 21 seasons under their hall of fame coach, Tom Izzo.They have won only once in that span, however, and that title in 2000 is now a long-ago bookend to the championship Magic Johnson delivered in 1979.The Spartans’ star point guard, Cassius Winston, who had played so splendidly throughout the tournament for Michigan State, was held largely in check by Texas Tech’s stifling defense. Though he led the Spartans with 16 points, he made only 4 of 16 shots and had twice as many turnovers (4) as assists (2). Kenny Goins, who made the game-winning shot to beat Duke, did not score at all.The 51 points were a season low for Michigan State, which followed Gonzaga, Michigan, Buffalo and Northern Kentucky in being shackled by the Red Raiders.“In general, the tougher team won,” Izzo said. “Give them credit. I really appreciate how hard his guys play. My guys hung in there, but our two seniors struggled tonight. They gave us so many great moments, but tonight wasn’t one of them.”If Saturday’s first national semifinal was always going to be a study in contrasts — Virginia’s methodical precision against Auburn’s organized chaos — the second game was not.Michigan State, which has long built its identity around mental and physical toughness — Izzo used to have his players put on football helmets and shoulder pads for rebounding drills — met its rare equal in Texas Tech.The Red Raiders have hung their hard hats on a grinding defense that is rated as the most efficient in the nation, according to KenPom metrics. In a typical 90-minute practice, the players said, 60 are spent on defense.On Saturday night, Texas Tech, with its persistent switching, relentless movement and extended arms made every pass a chore for Michigan State. And when the Spartans did manage to work the ball inside, Owens — a spindly 6-foot-10 senior with a 41-inch vertical leap — regularly contested shots at the rim.But when Owens swatted away a drive to the basket by Winston early in the second half, his third block, he rolled his ankle as he landed and crumpled in a heap. Owens was helped off the court, favoring his right leg, and taken to the locker room.He came back out of the tunnel and returned to the bench with about eight minutes to play, bringing the Texas Tech crowd to its feet. They roared again when Owens checked in with 6:52 left, but the lift he gave the Red Raiders was mostly spiritual.With Owens immobile and Culver ineffective, the reserves Brandone Frances and Kyler Edwards kept the Red Raiders afloat with drives to the basket until Mooney took over.A graduate transfer who began his career at Air Force and South Dakota before arriving in Lubbock, Mooney made three 3-pointers during a three-minute stretch, the final one giving the Red Raiders their biggest lead, at 48-35.“All year long we’d have different guys step up and Jarrett’s a special player,” said Mooney, who had received a nudge from the assistant coach Glenn Cyprien to be more aggressive. “He said: ‘It’s your time. Other guys aren’t finding their shot right now, you’ve got to take over this game.’ You don’t tell me twice to shoot the ball.”But the Spartans, as Auburn had against Virginia in the first game, crept back.And just after Mooney missed a driving layup, Aaron Henry knifed through the lane at the other end to bring Michigan State within a point, at 52-51, with 2:52 to play.It was a surge reminiscent of the one Gonzaga made against Texas Tech in the West Region final.“Stay poised, be tough,” Norense Odiase, who did not take a shot but grabbed nine rebounds, said of the mind-set his teammates carried down the stretch. “Everything that helped us get to this point, we can’t just let it go to waste just because in this game they made a run.”And so the Red Raiders stiffened. Culver, who did not score his first basket until 9:01 remained and missed 9 of his first 10 shots, scored on a jumper just outside the lane to push the advantage back to 54-51.Then Davide Moretti drew a charge from Winston, and Matt McQuaid missed a 3-pointer. Xavier Tillman missed the front end of a 1-and-1 and then was stripped by Odiase.It was then left to Culver to deliver the final blow, dribbling down the shot clock and knocking down his 3-pointer. As he did, he gestured to the Red Raiders’ crowd, which included its most well-known athletic alum, Kansas City Chiefs quarterback Patrick Mahomes.As unlikely and improbable as it might have seemed, Texas Tech was headed to the title game.Advertisement