AdvertisementSupported byBy Alisha Haridasani GuptaGood morning,We start today with cautionary tales of high-tech in the U.S. and China, an exploration of the growing importance of women in India’s election and the world’s largest plane.The technology giant tracks the locations of hundreds of millions of phones worldwide, The Times found as part of our opinion section’s Privacy Project.The police in the U.S. have started using warrants to tap into Google’s location database, known as Sensorvault, not only for information about suspects but also for “geofence” requests on an area where a crime occurred. The dragnet can include data from dozens or hundreds of devices — and can sometimes ensnare innocent people.How we know: Reporters interviewed Google officials and employees, prosecutors and law enforcement agents, and reviewed warrants and other legal documents.Response: In a statement, Richard Salgado, Google’s director of law enforcement and information security, said that the company tried to “vigorously protect the privacy of our users while supporting the important work of law enforcement.” He said identifying information was provided only “where legally required.”Explainer: Here’s more about Sensorvault, and how you can disable Google’s data collection.Chinese authorities are using facial recognition technology embedded in its nationwide surveillance camera network to track and control Uighurs, a largely Muslim minority group, even beyond Xinjiang, the western area where they are most concentrated.It is the first known example of a government intentionally using artificial intelligence for racial profiling, experts said.How we know: The technology was described by five people with direct knowledge of the system. The Times also reviewed databases used by the police, government procurement documents and materials distributed by the A.I. companies making the systems.Message from Australia: Uighur Muslims who found sanctuary in Australia are pressuring their adopted homeland to take action against the mass incarcerations in Xinjiang, for what Beijing calls “re-education.”Stanford University is investigating the interactions one of its professors, Stephen Quake, had with a Chinese scientist, He Jiankui, as Dr. He was working on creating the world’s first gene-altered babies.Dr. He’s announcement of success last November sent shock waves around the world. The president of his university in China later wrote to Stanford’s president, accusing Dr. Quake of having helped in the experiment.Response: Dr. Quake denies the allegations. In his email exchanges with Dr. He, which he showed to The Times, there are no signs that he was involved with the work itself, but the messages do contain polite encouragement.Bigger picture: Scrutiny of Dr. Quake reflects the issues that the global scientific community is now grappling with: When and how should scientists report their colleagues’ controversial research ideas?The golfer won his first major title in 11 years, capturing the Masters title at Augusta National. It was an extraordinary comeback from personal and professional setbacks that almost derailed his career.His pursuit of Jack Nicklaus’s record 18 major championships is now officially back on.Background: In 2009, a marital dispute led to a car accident and a succession of lurid tabloid headlines.On the golf course, back and leg injuries led to an addiction to painkillers and raised questions about whether he could ever play professionally again. The Times profiled him last year.In 1962, less than half of India’s women voted. By 2014, that figure had shot up to 66 percent. This year, many expect women’s votes to outnumber men’s.That could be a political game changer.“Women are getting more educated, they’re more emancipated, they’re more independent,” said Prannoy Roy, co-founder of India’s NDTV news channel and a veteran poll analyst.Women have shown generally less support for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Bharatiya Janata Party. In 2014, if only women had voted, the B.J.P wouldn’t have won the historic majority it did in the lower house of Parliament, according to Mr. Roy, who analyzed the data for his new book, “The Verdict: Decoding India’s Elections.”What do women care about in this election? Jobs, Mr. Roy said.Record unemployment has hit women particularly hard. According to the Center for Monitoring Indian Economy, an independent think tank, of the 11 million jobs India lost in 2018, 8.8 million had been held by women.It’s little surprise, then, that several political parties, including the B.J.P. and the Congress Party, have proposed policies specifically intended to improve the job picture for women.Send us your feedback and questions about this series here.U.S.-China relations: The F.B.I. has started barring Chinese scholars from visiting the U.S. if they are suspected of having links to Beijing’s intelligence agencies, a sign of the mounting concerns in both countries over espionage, commercial theft and political meddling.ISIS: The Red Cross kept secret the identity of a nurse who was abducted by the terrorist group in late 2013 in Syria to increase her chances of survival. Now that the Islamic State has collapsed, the aid group has broken its silence — identifying her as Louisa Akavi from New Zealand — in the hopes that the public can help find her. Julian Assange: The extradition of the WikiLeaks founder to the U.S. will be a long and complex process of legal filings, hearings and administrative decisions that could take at least a year, experts said.Seychelles: The president of the archipelago made an impassioned plea to save the world’s oceans, from the inside of a submersible craft 400 feet below the surface of the Indian Ocean.Climate change: Rising temperatures and extreme weather cycles in Mexico and Central America are disrupting crops and harvests. That’s proving to be a tipping point for many farmers, who are increasingly abandoning their land and heading north toward the U.S.Stratolaunch: The world’s largest plane — with a wingspan longer than a football field — took flight for the first time. It’s designed to carry rockets to blast commercial satellites into space, which is considered more efficient than launching them from the ground.Animal rights: Many tourists visiting Egypt’s major attractions have been appalled by sights of abused, overworked horses and camels, calling on visitors to boycott animal rides.Snapshot: Above, the police commemorating the 100th anniversary of the Jallianwala Bagh massacre in Amritsar, India. Britain has stopped short of apologizing for the 1919 killings that claimed the lives of hundreds of people peacefully protesting colonial rule.What we’re reading: This article in Science News. “Dumbo is a delightful movie, but an elephant is never going to fly by flapping its ears,” says Michael Roston, a science editor. “This fun article by Bethany Brookshire examines the anatomical obstacles.”Cook: This dish of tomatoes, rice and melty Cheddar can be best described as pizza rice. (Yes, pizza rice.)Watch: Alex Ross Perry’s new feature, “Her Smell,” focuses on an all-female band’s lead singer (a raw, charismatic Elisabeth Moss) as she runs off the rails.Listen: The composer George Crumb turns 90 this year. The Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center is presenting two concerts in tribute, but, if you can’t make those, we have a Spotify playlist of his compositions.Read: In “Horizon,” the environmentalist Barry Lopez reconstructs decades’ worth of his observations of the natural world. It’s one of eight new books we recommend.Smarter Living: There are scientifically proven, somewhat surprising ways to increase your memory power. Give your mind a chance to consolidate information by retreating to a dark, quiet room for 10 minutes of inactivity (but not sleep). And you can boost your brain’s ability to retrieve memories by quizzing yourself on them, or sharing them out loud.And we look at the benefits of sharing — whether triumphs, photos or difficulties — in person rather than on social media.With the arrest last week of its founder, Julian Assange, WikiLeaks is back in the headlines.“Leaks” is obvious for the name of the anti-secrecy organization, which started in 2006, but where does “wiki” come from?In 1995, the computer programmer Ward Cunningham introduced the first wiki, a website that’s collaboratively produced by users. He called it WikiWikiWeb, after the Hawaiian word for “quick,” which he had picked up from the name of an airport shuttle in the islands.The word was later adopted by Wikipedia, the online encyclopedia that started in 2001, and was added to the Oxford English Dictionary in 2007.The wiki isn’t Mr. Cunningham’s only contribution to modern online life. He also gave his name to Cunningham’s Law, the idea that the best way to find the correct answer on the internet isn’t to ask a question, but to post the wrong answer.It’s the eye of the Tiger, it’s the thrill of the fight. See you next time.— AlishaThank youTo Mark Josephson, Eleanor Stanford and James K. Williamson for the break from the news. Chris Stanford, on the briefings team, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Our latest episode is about Israel’s election, as seen by a young Palestinian.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: “No vote" (four letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • The Research and Development team at The New York Times has launched the 5G Journalism Lab, to explore how higher and faster bandwidth might unlock new ways to tell stories.Alisha Haridasani Gupta writes the Morning Briefing.  @alisha__g Advertisement