AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc TracyCHAPEL HILL, N.C. — The summer of 2015 found the University of North Carolina in what some, including Jay M. Smith, a professor at the university, would characterize as a curious position.A year earlier, a university-commissioned report had found that the African and Afro-American Studies Department had offered nearly 200 fraudulent classes over almost two decades. These classes had been disproportionately populated by athletes in the high-profile sports of football and basketball, who in some cases were steered by athletic department tutors who knew the courses required little work.The result was one of the worst academic scandals in college sports history, and a huge black mark on a prestigious university and its proud athletic program. The university’s accreditation body placed North Carolina on probation. The N.C.A.A. conducted an investigation.But critics saw few systemic changes.“There’d been none of these public forums, no signs of lessons learned,” Smith said recently.A history professor whose area of study is pre-Revolutionary France, Smith had been agitating about the scandal for several years. He had even written a book about the affair, “Cheated,” with a former learning specialist who helped blow the whistle on the classes.“I thought, I cannot rely on this institution to do the right thing,” Smith said, “and I think it would be an abdication of responsibility for us to pass up the opportunity to provide students at this institution an opportunity to learn about their scandal — how it happened, what it says about college sports, what it tells us about the plight of athletes.”And that is why earlier this week, as the men’s college basketball world turned its attention to the Final Four — an event the Tar Heels qualified for in 2016 and 2017, winning the title in the latter year — well over 100 undergraduates heard Smith lecture on the scandal as part of his increasingly popular course, History 383: Big-Time College Sports and the Rights of Athletes, 1874 to the Present.Students in the class read “Cheated” and “Pay for Play: A History of Big-Time College Athletic Reform,” by Ronald A. Smith, as well as articles about the post-Civil War underpinnings of college football and the struggles of female and black athletes. The last quarter of the class, beginning this week, concerns the North Carolina scandal, including the much smaller controversy that arose over the course itself.Smith is not trolling the university with the class, he said, although he wondered whether his superiors took it that way when two senior administrators seemed to be pressuring the then-department chair to cancel the course a few years ago. (The officials said their questions about the course had nothing to do with its content. The provost overturned a grievance committee’s finding that the officials’ interference had been undue.)More righteous than self-righteous, Smith said the course is an earnest attempt to fight for a fairer college sports system, at North Carolina and elsewhere.His class, he insisted, does not have an agenda. But it certainly has a point of view. And that includes the notion that efforts like the class itself are futile.“By examining all these earlier episodes of growth followed by hand-wringing and efforts at reform, which inevitably fail — what they see is there are systemic features in college athletics that hardened over time and became ever more intractable,” Smith said.Smith provides an unsentimental education that suggests a messy reality, one in which the scandal resulted from the workings of the college sports industry, including how it prevents athletes from getting a piece of the profits they generate.While Smith has clarified in class that he is antagonistic to the college sports industry rather than to college athletes, this ambiguity leads to misconceptions, according to Lydia Thompson, a senior on the rowing team who is taking the class.“Students hear critiques of the ways in which athletes have been abused by the educational system,” Thompson wrote in an email, “and automatically extrapolate those critiques and apply them to athletes who merely have to abide by the rules of that system.”Smith has taught at Chapel Hill since 1990, having arrived during the era of good feelings associated with the legendary late basketball coach Dean Smith (no relation). “I drank the Kool-Aid,” he said.Within three years of his arrival, though, according to a university report, the academic fraud had begun. It did not begin to come to light until 2011, right around when Jay Smith’s involvement with it commenced.That summer, a football player named Mike McAdoo sued the university and the N.C.A.A. over his ineligibility related to another instance of academic misconduct. A student-run honors court had suspended him for submitting a paper in a Swahili class for which a tutor had formatted footnotes. But the paper, which was disclosed in court filings, included plagiarism, and that discovery led to a stream of revelations that eventually exposed the fake-classes scandal.Smith was serving on a faculty committee overseeing the honors court. When a reporter asked to discuss McAdoo, Smith looked up the paper and was “flabbergasted,” he said, not only by its blatant evidence of plagiarism, but also because he knew the ostensible instructor of the course, Julius Nyang’oro, was not a language instructor. (Nyang’oro, the African and Afro-American Studies chair, was later found to be complicit in the scandal.)“All of this smelled really, really fishy to me,” Smith said.Smith and a few other faculty members convened an ad hoc group for academic reform. A neophyte when it came to college athletics, Smith was tutored by Richard Southall, a professor who directed the university’s College Sport Research Institute.Southall, whose institute is now housed at the University of South Carolina, said he gave the group a “primer” on college sports, with the thesis that scandals are the regular, inevitable consequence of the conflict between the N.C.A.A.’s amateurism model and market forces such as fan interest and player value.“Players understand their market value, coaches understand it, everybody understands it,” Southall said in an interview.To hear Smith tell it, the course, first taught over the summer of 2016, came naturally to him. As a historian, he said, “you look for developments over time, charting both continuities and change, and you identify the issues that seem to be at stake.”“I want them to leave the class with a reform spirit,” he added. “I want them to have a fresh appreciation for the way the system mistreats the athletes and why we need radical new thinking to correct those inequities.”Ally Mastroianni, a sophomore on North Carolina’s lacrosse team, said she had enrolled in Smith’s class out of a sense of responsibility. “I did want to learn about the scandal,” she said. “I feel as an athlete I should know the facts.”Her days are long, she said, filled with practice, rehab, classes, meals, homework and maybe some social time. Her main complaint about the relatively new Loudermilk Center for Excellence, a state-of-the-art athlete support center in the football stadium, is that it does not stay open past 10 p.m.“When I see people rolling their eyes, it’s hurtful,” she said of her classmates’ attitude toward Loudermilk, which Smith’s students toured. “I don’t think it’s just a sham.”Still, she did not regret enrolling in Smith’s course. It is, she said, “probably the most interesting class I’ve taken at U.N.C.”Advertisement