AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressReuben Foster has been fined two game checks and reinstated to the Washington Redskins’ active roster after an N.F.L. investigation into an incident of domestic violence found that the linebacker had not violated the league’s personal conduct policy.The league announced Foster’s fine for two games this season and his new status on Friday. Foster will be allowed to participate in all team activities, including Washington’s off-season program, which begins next week.Foster avoided being suspended in the aftermath of a November domestic violence arrest, which set off a review by the N.F.L. based on his previous violations of league policies.Prosecutors in Tampa, Fla., decided in January not to pursue a domestic violence case against Foster, 25, dismissing a first-degree misdemeanor battery charge.Foster served a two-game suspension in 2018 in connection with an off-season misdemeanor gun possession charge in California. He pleaded no contest to that charge. He was also charged that year with a misdemeanor related to marijuana possession in Alabama, a case that was dropped.“Everyone in this league is held to a higher standard,” Redskins President Bruce Allen said. “Reuben understands that his past actions have led a lot of people to doubt him, and he has committed to doing the work necessary to earn the trust of his teammates, our great fans, and the N.F.L.”Foster was arrested at the San Francisco 49ers’ hotel in Tampa in November, on the night before a game, and jailed overnight after a companion accused him of hurting her. Police identified the companion as the same woman who accused Foster of hitting her in February 2017. She recanted those allegations.The 49ers released Foster after the November arrest, and the Redskins claimed him off waivers but acknowledged that he might never play for them. He was placed on the commissioner’s exempt list after Washington claimed him, and he spent the rest of the season on it, collecting a salary but unable to play.Foster is now cleared to return and play next season.“I am grateful to the Washington Redskins and the N.F.L. for giving me this second chance,” Foster said. “I accept the N.F.L.’s decision and want to say that I am truly sorry for my past actions and the people who may have been hurt by them.”The league said Foster had acknowledged responsibility for his actions and had committed to a comprehensive plan, developed in conjunction with the N.F.L. Players Association and the Redskins, to avoid future incidents. Allen said the plan included counseling, weekly meetings with the team’s player engagement director and chaplain, and some community service.“We have been very clear with Reuben that his past does not have to determine his future — but the responsibility is squarely on him to change,” Allen said. “Reuben must fully adhere to the plan we have developed for him. Reuben knows that we simply will not tolerate any future conduct that is detrimental to the Washington Redskins organization or to the N.F.L.”The league said it had told Foster that any future incidents would most likely result in more substantial discipline. Foster has so far played 16 regular-season games for San Francisco, which took him in the 31st spot of the first round in the 2017 draft.“Going forward, I will follow the plan outlined for me and work hard to earn back the trust of my teammates, the N.F.L., N.F.L. fans and the community,” Foster said. “I know that my success is all up to me, and I am committed to not letting you down.”Advertisement