AdvertisementSupported bydaily crossword columnRoss Trudeau makes a discovery about his theme … and himself.By Deb AmlenWEDNESDAY PUZZLE — It might not be obvious to solvers who don’t read the bylines on their puzzles, but there are populations of people who are underrepresented in puzzle publishing, such as women, people of color and people who are L.G.B.T.+. This underrepresentation of constructors who are not white and male is something that constructors and editors discuss often. Some people have trouble understanding exactly why this underrepresentation is an issue. It’s admittedly tough to understand why representation is so important if you are a member of the dominant group by default. The short version of the story is that when a business or its intended audience is dominated by one group, other voices and points of view can accidentally be suppressed. That’s a shame, because hearing other voices and witnessing other points of view keep life interesting. Learning about other people means we don’t have to fear or misunderstand them. Most important, solving puzzles made by people like themselves makes these underrepresented groups feel seen and heard. Inclusion benefits everyone.Again, I’m not suggesting that this underrepresentation happens for malignant reasons. It could be because other groups do not have the time or resources to submit as many puzzles, and editors can consider and publish only what they receive. At this time, only around 15 percent of submissions to The New York Times Crossword are from nonmale constructors. It could be a matter of unconscious bias — where accepting puzzles that represent the same outlook an editor has on life is not really a conscious decision — on the part of the industry’s editors, who tend to be both white and male. No one has really concluded why this underrepresentation exists, but as a community, puzzle makers and editors have decided to do something about it.That is one reason the editors, other constructors and I recommend the Crossword Puzzle Collaboration Directory group on Facebook, which helps underrepresented groups find mentors who can teach them the ropes of puzzle making. It’s why we boost the signal of puzzle publishers like Women of Letters, Queer Qrosswords, The Inkubator and the new Black History Year puzzle pack from The New York Times, written by constructors of color.So what does this have to do with Ross Trudeau’s puzzle?It turns out that Mr. Trudeau learned something about himself at some point after submitting this puzzle — which you can read in his notes below — and has vowed not only to make an effort to be more inclusive of others in subsequent themes, but also to mentor constructors in underrepresented groups to publication. Kudos for your honesty and reflection, Mr. Trudeau. 24A: This one elicited a chuckle out of me. Had it been written “You, too, can call it home,” it would have been a lot trickier. But the name of the Irish band is written U2, and it is indeed from EIRE.42A: In square dancing, men are referred to by the caller as “guys,” and women are referred to as “GALS.”43A: Hi, kids! CHARO is known to your parents and grandparents as a Spanish singer and comedian whose trademark line — with an accompanying sexy wiggle — was “Cuchi-cuchi!” What many people didn’t know about her, however, was that she was a classically trained flamenco guitarist who studied with Andrés Segovia. When asked about the discrepancy between her image as an entertainer and her music, she said: “Around the world I am known as a great musician. But in America I am known as the cuchi-cuchi girl. That’s O.K., because cuchi-cuchi has taken me all the way to the bank." Sadly, Charo’s husband, Kjell Rasten, took his own life in February.4D: “The ‘C’ of F.C. Barcelona” stands for CLUB, because soccer teams in Europe are known as football clubs.10D: Hi again, kids! “Lucy’s man” refers to the husband of the comedian Lucille Ball, DESI Arnaz.39D: “Bit of Oscar recognition, informally” is a NOM, or nomination.Mr. Trudeau changes the meaning of SEARCH RESULTS, such as what you get if you use a search engine like Google, to the results of experimentation or searches made by three scientists: a biologist, an astronomer and an archaeologist, who all walk into a bar (just kidding). All three of them happen to be white and male, which is what triggered Mr. Trudeau’s notes.You might be thinking, So what? A discovery is a discovery, no matter who makes it, right? Not really. Not when it’s presented like this.Think about how differently a woman, someone who is L.G.B.T.+, or a person of color might view this puzzle if at least one of the scientists was just like them. (Spoiler alert: It would make them feel happy, accepted and seen.) It doesn’t take anything away from the other scientists to include a scientist who happens to be a woman or a person of color. I don’t have time to research scientists who might have fit in one of the slots, but I’m sure they exist.The puzzle itself is nicely done. It’s a smooth solve and debuts seven entries. It feels like a unique theme. And, after reading Mr. Trudeau’s notes below, I find myself daydreaming about the kind of puzzles that come next for him.This puzzle is trivia-based, but its main flaw isn’t trivial.Last year, I offered crossword construction help to puzzle enthusiasts who are nonmale, L.G.B.T.+ or people of color, populations that have been traditionally underrepresented in crosswords. I was prompted to do so by some of my colleagues, who pointed out that in puzzle after puzzle I was disproportionately featuring men, particularly white men, in my theme material. Today’s puzzle, which I constructed before having gotten that important feedback, is a particularly egregious example.So, if you identify as nonmale, as L.G.B.T.+ or are a person of color, please contact me via Instagram or Twitter, so we can move the needle on representation in puzzle world.Almost finished solving but need a bit more help? We’ve got you covered.Warning: There be spoilers ahead, but subscribers can take a peek at the answer key.Trying to get back to the puzzle page? Right here. Your thoughts?Deb Amlen is the crossword columnist. She has been writing the Wordplay column since 2011 and believes that everyone can learn to solve the Times crossword. Even the Saturdays.  @NYTimesWordplay Advertisement