AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressThe sports radio personality Craig Carton was sentenced to three and a half years in prison on Friday by a longtime fan and listener — the judge — for a ticket reselling scheme that ended his broadcast partnership with the former N.F.L. quarterback Boomer Esiason.Carton, convicted in November of conspiracy, wire fraud and securities fraud, was sentenced by Chief Judge Colleen McMahon in Manhattan federal court.She greeted him like a radio listener.“Good afternoon, Mr. Carton. Colleen from New York. First time, long time,” the judge said, adding that she used to listen to his show as she drove to court.“I knew you could be fun to listen to,” she said. “I also knew you could be a jerk.”The prison term was half of what prosecutors sought after Carton was convicted at a November trial of soliciting and then largely gambling away nearly $7 million.Geoffrey S. Berman, United States attorney for the Southern District of New York, said in a release that Carton’s ticket resale business, which purported to use his connections to obtain good seats for events like Metallica and Barbra Streisand concerts, was an “elaborate fiction.”Carton, a 50-year-old Manhattan resident, blamed his fall from a measure of celebrity and wealth on “wildly stupid decisions” he made as he tried to cope with memories of being sexually abused at age 11.He said memories of the abuse were set off by revelations of the crimes of Jerry Sandusky, a former Penn State football assistant who was convicted of child sexual abuse in 2012. That led him first to speak angrily and more emotionally than he ever had before on WFAN’s “Boomer and Carton” show, which he co-hosted for years with Esiason. Then he could not sleep.“Nobody knows what it’s like when lights go out and you lay in bed awake and the demons come,” Carton said.He recalled turning to blackjack and eventually developing a gambling addiction so serious that winning and losing became irrelevant.Carton said his arrest in 2017 was a “lightning bolt of awareness for me.” He said he had joined Gamblers Anonymous and was undergoing therapy.“I am truly powerless over this disease,” Carton said. His last bet — a loss — came in June, he added.Before describing the sentence, the judge said she had enjoyed Carton’s show, except when it became too “raunchy.”But she likened his crimes to those of the financier Bernard L. Madoff, who is serving a 150-year prison sentence, though she said Madoff’s scheme, in which he squandered roughly $20 billion, went on far longer.The judge dismissed Carton’s claims that he never meant to lose investors’ money, saying it was a common justification in financial crimes.“The money always runs out at some point, and only then do you realize the road to your personal hell was truly paved with your good intentions,” she said.“Craig Carton, you have indeed descended into a hell of your own making,” the judge said. “Everything you spent a lifetime of building up is gone. Your marriage is over. Your family is decimated. Your kids are terrified. Your career is in tatters. Your reputation is lost.”She did, however, praise Carton’s plan to publicly urge others to stop gambling as she ordered him to pay $4.8 million in restitution and to forfeit $4.2 million. He also must do 150 hours of community service.She said Carton could perhaps someday resume a radio show, which he left after his arrest, but she noted one of the biggest advertisers on sports radio shows seemed to be legal gambling businesses.“That troubles me,” the judge said.Carton must report to prison on July 15.Advertisement