AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc TracyMINNEAPOLIS — Joshua Langford, a Michigan State guard, remembered the first time he saw more than an inch of snow. It was two years ago, during his freshman year in East Lansing. An Alabama native, he awoke one morning to find a campus absolutely covered in the stuff.“Bro, they’re probably going to cancel class,” he told his roommate, the former Spartans star Miles Bridges.Recalling his education in the winters of the Upper Midwest, he deadpanned this week: “They didn’t cancel class.”These days, Langford remains one of the odd men out, a rare Michigan State player who did not grow up no more than a half-day’s drive from campus. In fact, 10 of the 16 players on the roster of this year’s Spartans, a No. 2 seed that faces third-seeded Texas Tech in a national semifinal on Saturday night, played high school basketball in the state of Michigan. Among its 12 players receiving scholarships, seven did.With Langford out since January with a knee injury, the Spartans’ most recent two games — impressive wins over Louisiana State and Duke — have featured Michiganders playing more than 57 percent of the minutes.“If we could have 13 guys from Michigan, that’s what Coach Izzo would like,” said Dwayne Stephens, Michigan State’s associate head coach.Stephens is from Michigan, as are the other two assistants, the recruiting coordinator and Iron Mountain’s own Tom Izzo.“In Michigan you don’t have all the publicity, all that type of thing,” said the star point guard Cassius Winston, a junior from Detroit. “You want to come to a place like Michigan State, where you’ve got to grind, you’ve got to work for everything.”Yet in the age of national and international recruiting, the prominent men’s basketball team of a public university being dominated by players from its good-size state is more unusual than one might think.Unlike football recruiting, which has remained somewhat regional, the best basketball teams these days draw players from everywhere. Thanks to summer leagues, the best players congregate in April and July showcases in a few cities near large airports in front of coaches from across the country. Even the 10 or 12 most prominent programs in the country — a classification that definitely includes Michigan State — sign only a combined few dozen players every year, so they can afford to chase after the best.The in-state talent comprising 62.5 percent of the Michigan State roster, then, stands out.At public-school programs similar in pedigree to Michigan State, this ratio tends to be much lower: 3 of 15 at Kansas; 1 of 12 at Kentucky (or two if you count the walk-on Brad Calipari, the coach’s son, who went to high school in New Jersey); 6 of 17 at North Carolina.Nor is this some Big Ten occurrence. At Ohio State, the equivalent figure is 6 of 14. At Wisconsin, it’s 4 of 18. At Indiana, it’s 7 of 17.In fact, of a semi-random assortment of 20 prominent state-school basketball teams, only Washington’s and Georgia’s had instate-to-out-of-state ratios similar to Michigan State’s. Only 6 of the 15 players on the Red Raiders roster Michigan State will face on Saturday are from Texas.The trend is not new: For years, Michigan State’s biggest stars have almost all been Mitten Staters. Winston was Michigan’s Mr. Basketball at the University of Detroit Jesuit High School. Bridges, who was the 12th overall pick in the N.B.A. draft last year, is from Flint, though he played high school basketball in several states. Denzel Valentine is from Lansing, Draymond Green and Jason Richardson from Saginaw.Dane Fife, another Michigan State associate head coach (and a former Michigan Mr. Basketball), is the son of a longtime high school coach in Clarkston. He said the kinship among players in the locker room (which also includes two Ohioans and one player from Indiana) has real competitive advantages. “There is a sense of loyalty not just to your school,” he said.The biggest drawback to focusing on Michigan basketball in recruiting is the condition of Michigan basketball. It has seen better days.For one thing, there are simply fewer people in Michigan than there used to be. The eighth-largest state by population in the 1990 census, it most likely will drop to 10th after next year’s, partly related to the travails of the auto industry. In the last five years, the best recruit from the state of Michigan was never ranked higher than No. 26 in 247Sports’s composite rankings.Several Michigan State players and coaches said that another problem is Michigan High School Athletic Association rules limiting teams from traveling to national tournaments, causing an adverse impact on Michigan high school basketball and, indirectly, on Michigan State recruiting.For instance, Detroit’s Josh Jackson, the top class of 2015 recruit nationally, played prep-school basketball elsewhere before his single season at Kansas.“The M.H.S.A.A., the people that run the high school basketball, they have some old rules that definitely need to be updated,” said the freshman Foster Loyer, last year’s Michigan Mr. Basketball. “It is causing some higher-level talent to leave the state.”Mark Uyl, the state association’s executive director, said in an interview that several states had similar travel rules, which in Michigan’s case allow teams to travel only to neighboring states (plus Illinois) or trips of no more than 300 miles in one direction.“The 748 high schools that make up our membership believe that we found a pretty good balance of letting schools be able to travel to find some of the best competition in the Midwest, while keeping some academic balance,” Uyl said.The Michigan State staff’s attitude toward the rules was pretty clear. “Hopefully,” Stephens said, “some things will change.”Another potential obstacle to Michigan State’s ability to recruit in its own state has actually become an advantage. This is the presence of another public university, one located more proximately to the state population’s center of gravity and one that considers itself far more glamorous than its land-grant sibling.It is possible you have heard of the University of Michigan, particularly if you have ever met anyone who went there.But though Michigan has been to two national championship games since Michigan State last appeared in one, it is the Spartans — over the nearly quarter-century that Izzo has been Michigan State’s head coach — who have won a national title and made eight Final Fours, never going more than five seasons without playing in the N.C.A.A. tournament’s final weekend.It may be the Wolverine State, but only seven of Michigan’s 16 players this season — and only four of its 12 scholarship players — were from Michigan.To today’s teenagers, born several years after the Fab Five left Ann Arbor, Michigan’s dominant program is not the one in maize and blue.“You grow up in Michigan,” said Braden Burke, a walk-on from Stevensville, “you want to play for Michigan State.”Advertisement