AdvertisementSupported byBy Tariq PanjaSoccer officials from one of FIFA’s largest confederations have gathered this week in Malaysia’s capital, Kuala Lumpur, to elect a president. The balloting will take place at the end of a long day of speeches, motions and reports, but at least the setting — the luxurious Shangri-La Hotel — promises to be comfortable.Before the vote is held, the incumbent, Sheikh Salman bin Ebrahim al-Khalifa of Bahrain, will have the opportunity to make a speech outlining his qualifications. His opponent will not.That is because, as usual, there is no opponent.For the third time in less than a year — the fourth will come in June — one of soccer’s largest and most powerful governing bodies will rubber-stamp the election of its leader in a one-candidate election. South America’s governing body, Conmebol, went first last May, when it granted President Alejandro Domínguez an unopposed second term, and Europe’s governing body, UEFA, followed suit in February by re-electing Aleksandr Ceferin. In June, FIFA’s president, Gianni Infantino, will retain his post in yet another walkover.“There has always seemed to be a great deal of fear around challenging the incumbent and because of the potential for retribution built into the system,” said Alexandra Wrage, president of the corporate governance adviser Trace International. For that reason, she said, regular uncontested elections are “not all that surprising.”Wrage previously advised FIFA on corporate governance reforms before quitting in 2013. She has since become one of the organization’s most vocal critics.In Asia, Sheikh Salman had been challenged — briefly — by opponents from the United Arab Emirates and Qatar, two countries at the center of a broad political dispute that has spilled into soccer in a variety of ways, but both dropped out of the race late last month after a series of behind-the-scenes meetings in the Gulf.Sheikh Salman’s presidency has been marred by controversy since he was elected in 2013 to replace Mohamed Bin Hammam, a wealthy Qatari businessman who was banned for life in the wake of a corruption investigation. His connections to Bahrain’s royal family, for example, have led to Sheikh Salman’s recusing himself from a role in some of the Asian Football Confederation’s most sensitive decisions, such as in the highly publicized case of Hakeem al-Araibi, a soccer player who fled to Australia after claiming he had been tortured by the Bahraini government during pro-democracy demonstrations there in 2011.Salman also did not take part in discussions over how to deal with the pirating of the A.F.C.’s Qatari broadcast partner’s programing by an illegal operation based in Saudi Arabia. Bahrain is among the countries backing the Saudi-led blockade of Qatar.The re-election of incumbents, routinely without opposition, is common in soccer, where the power structures remain closely held despite a sprawling investigation in 2015 by the United States Department of Justice that exposed corruption schemes at the highest levels of the sport dating back decades.The American case largely avoided implicating officials in Asia, but by then regional soccer leaders had already faced a reckoning after a series of internal investigations into the conduct of Sheikh Salman’s predecessor, Bin Hammam, and his leadership team. Those reports, including one by the former F.B.I. chief Louis Freeh, exposed a series of unexplained payments made to soccer officials throughout Asia and Africa.The reports, three in total, which have been reviewed by The New York Times, exposed a series of payments made on behalf of Bin Hammam by the A.F.C.’s longtime media partner, World Sports Group, and specifically its regional head, the Lebanese businessman Pierre Kakhia. The payments included legal fees for an official from Tahiti who was facing an ethics ban, and money to a consulting firm hired to promote Bin Hammam’s bid for the FIFA presidency.Despite his links to Bin Hammam, Kakhia remains a trusted consultant to the A.F.C., currently responsible for handling millions of dollars worth of sponsorship contracts, even though he last worked for W.S.G.’s parent company in 2016.The A.F.C. declined to say why it had retained the services of Kakhia.As well as Sheikh Salman’s re-election, delegates at the meeting in Kuala Lumpur will pick candidates for coveted places on global soccer’s ruling body, the FIFA Council. That contest, featuring eight candidates vying for six places, has proved to be contentious.South Korean officials have complained to the A.F.C. over perceived double standards in ethics rules after their country was barred from inviting soccer officials to Seoul to attend an exhibition game last month, a prohibition that was not extended to Qatar, which wrote to officials inviting them on an all-expenses paid trip to attend two matches there. Both South Korea and Qatar have candidates in the election, as does the Philippines, whose candidate, the South Koreans contend, has been using a private jet owned by a Qatari official to travel across the region during his campaign.“We urgently request you to review this matter in relation to any violation against the relevant regulations in force,” the Korean soccer federation president, Chong Mong-gyu, wrote in a letter to the A.F.C. The A.F.C., which confirmed it had received the South Koreans’ complaint, declined to say why it had not issued the same warning to Qatar.Sheikh Salman’s challengers dropped out of the presidential race after a series of decisions by the A.F.C., including the surprising move to break an exclusive television contract with the A.F.C.’s broadcast partner, the Qatari broadcaster BeIN Sports, in order to allow games to be broadcast in Saudi Arabia, where games have been broadcast illegally for almost two years. BeIN said it planned to sue the A.F.C. over the decision.Until that decision, Saudi Arabia had been supporting an Emirati candidate, Mohammad Khalfan al-Rumaithi. Rumaithi withdrew his candidacy shortly after the television agreement was struck. The third candidate, Saoud al-Mohannadi of Qatar, soon followed suit.Advertisement