AdvertisementSupported byBy Ken Belson and Frances RoblesThe battle over whether prosecutors can release police surveillance videos of the New England Patriots owner Robert K. Kraft and 24 other men charged with solicitation of prostitution in Florida heated up on Wednesday, and a judge ordered them not to do so until he rules on the matter later this month.The action was the latest step in a battle over whether the surveillance videos, which were taken in January, should be made public. Mr. Kraft and more than a dozen of the other men have refused to accept a plea deal from prosecutors, contending that the video and other pieces of evidence were improperly obtained.The police have said the videos show the men who have been charged engaging in a variety of sex acts with women who were working under the guise of operating a massage parlor.Most men charged with similar misdemeanors accept deals that include fines, community service and a presumption of guilt in return for no jail time and having the charges dropped. But Mr. Kraft, a businessman, philanthropist and N.F.L. team owner, has turned the dispute over the video into a bare-knuckle legal fight.Mr. Kraft has objected to the videos’ release. “What is the interest the public has in seeing it? It’s basically pornography,” his lawyer William A. Burck said Friday in a hearing in Palm Beach County, Fla.Mr. Kraft has filed motions first to keep the video private so as not to prejudice his case, and then to suppress the video from the evidence entirely because, he argued, it was obtained under false pretenses. His lawyers have argued that the police convinced a judge that video surveillance was necessary because the massage parlor was thought to be a part of a human trafficking ring. No one working there has been charged with human trafficking.The judge in Mr. Kraft’s case has still not ruled on those motions.The issue over release of the videos is being debated on two fronts: Hua Zhang, 58, and Lei Wang, 39, the two women charged with running a house of prostitution at the Orchids of Asia Day Spa, in Jupiter, Fla., where Mr. Kraft was arrested, have also sought to keep the videos from being made public. The decision to hold off on any release of the videos until a hearing on April 29 was made by Circuit Judge Joseph Marx, who is overseeing the felony case against the two women.In court last week, prosecutors handling Mr. Kraft’s misdemeanor case had assured the judge that no videos would be released until a judge decided whether they should be made public. But the prosecutors in the separate case against the two women did an about-face, filing court papers Wednesday saying that the law does not give them the legal authority to wait.Mr. Kraft’s lawyers, Mr. Burck, Alex Spiro and Jack A. Goldberger, wrote a letter to the court accusing the Palm Beach County’s state attorney’s office of “extraordinary and alarming” “gross prosecutorial misconduct.”In their letter to the judge, Mr. Kraft’s lawyers quoted a passage from a hearing last week in which the prosecutor told the judge that his office would wait until the judge ruled before taking action.Mr. Kraft, 77, is accused of paying for sexual acts at the day spa in January. He is charged with two misdemeanor counts of soliciting prostitution. He has pleaded not guilty.A hearing on whether the video should be allowed in evidence is scheduled for April 26. Then, on April 29, the judge in the case against Ms. Zhang and Ms. Wang of Orchids of Asia will hear arguments on whether the prosecutor is obligated under Florida law to release the video.Florida has a robust public records law, which says that evidence in criminal cases is public as soon as it is delivered to the defense. On Wednesday, the prosecutors handling the case of Ms. Zhang and Ms. Wang said they were obligated to release the video.In the documents, the prosecutors wrote, “The Public Records Act does not allow a custodian to delay the production of records to allow the resolution of a constitutional challenge to the release of the documents.”They also added: “It is the practice of the Office of the State Attorney to pixelate or blur depictions of obscene or pornographic images before releasing such records to the public.”The video would have portions blurred.The threat to release the video could be seen as an effort by prosecutors to gain leverage over Mr. Kraft and encourage him to accept the state attorney’s offer, which includes paying a fine and doing community service in return for a guilty plea.While Mr. Kraft has not admitted guilt, he apologized in March to fans, co-workers and family. He did not respond Wednesday to a request for comment.Mr. Kraft and his legal team are also facing off against several news organizations, including The New York Times, that have filed a motion to oppose keeping evidence in the case private, as Mr. Kraft has requested.In their filing, the news organizations said the Constitution of Florida “does not provide a right of privacy in public records.”“We believe they are public records now, but we respect the court’s process,” Dana J. McElroy, a lawyer representing The New York Times and other news outlets, said in an interview. “Our position is that the release of public records, any public records, does not impair any defendant’s right to a fair trial in these circumstances. Much, if not all, of the details concerning the alleged crimes have already been made public.”Mike Edmondson, a spokesman for the state attorney, said the office had filed the notice because prosecutors felt it was important to clarify the office’s position on the issue.“We believe Florida public record law is applicable here, and we are going to follow it unless a court orders otherwise,” Mr. Edmondson said just before the court ordered the delay. “We got a public record request, and we are processing it like any other.”Advertisement