AdvertisementSupported byBy Kenneth P. Vogel and Andrew E. KramerWASHINGTON — The Treasury Department allowed the influential Russian oligarch Oleg V. Deripaska to satisfy the terms of his divorce by transferring tens of millions of dollars in stock to benefit his children as part of a deal to lift United States sanctions on his corporate empire, according to the Trump administration and an interview with Mr. Deripaska.The deal, announced by the Trump administration in December without publicly disclosing its details, included a clause providing for the completion of a transfer of 10.5 million shares of Mr. Deripaska’s main holding company, EN+, to a trust fund for the two teenage children he had with his former wife, Polina Yumasheva.The couple divorced last year, and their settlement, which called for him to provide funds for their children, was finalized before Mr. Deripaska and his companies were sanctioned in April 2018, according to representatives of the Treasury Department, Mr. Deripaska and EN+.The transfer has drawn the ire of Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, who is a member of the Senate Finance Committee, which has jurisdiction over the Treasury Department. He said in a letter sent late last month to Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, that the transfer of the EN+ shares — which had a value of more than $78 million at the close of business on Monday — “constitutes a clear benefit to Deripaska and his children,” and conflicts with Treasury Department claims that neither would benefit from the sanctions relief deal.The sanctions were intended to punish seven oligarchs and their companies — including Mr. Deripaska, EN+ and the giant aluminum company it controls, Rusal — for their affiliations with a Russian government that “engages in a range of malign activity around the globe,” including election interference, Mr. Mnuchin said at the time.When the Treasury Department announced the deal with Mr. Deripaska’s companies to lift the sanctions, it cast the move as an effort to stabilize global aluminum markets roiled by the sanctions, and said that Mr. Deripaska would not personally benefit. As part of the deal, he agreed to relinquish control of the companies and sell off a significant portion of his ownership, with proceeds going into blocked accounts that he would not be able to access.But members of Congress on both sides of the aisle blasted the deal as soft on Russia, and unsuccessfully tried to block it from going into effect. Those concerns were inflamed further when it was revealed that the confidential, legally binding document detailing the agreement showed that Mr. Deripaska and his allies would retain majority ownership of EN+.The agreement specified that 1.64 percent of the shares of EN+ would be transferred to an entity called the Liberi Foundation, for which there was no easily traceable public record. After receiving inquiries from journalists, EN+ officials said Liberi was a trust fund for Mr. Deripaska’s children.But when asked by Mr. Wyden at a Senate Finance Committee hearing late last month about the arrangement, Mr. Mnuchin said of Mr. Deripaska that “his children did in no way benefit from sanctions relief.”A Treasury Department spokeswoman sought to clarify Mr. Mnuchin’s statement last week, saying that “Deripaska’s children were legally entitled to shares stemming from a divorce settlement that predated the sanctions.”Larissa Belyaeva, a spokeswoman for Mr. Deripaska, said in a statement that he “disclaimed all rights to claw back those shares.”She added, “Nor did his children benefit as all that was honored was a pre-existing legal entitlement to settle shares as part of a divorce settlement.”She said the votes from the shares would be cast by independent trustees appointed by the Treasury Department.Independent trustees also will control the votes associated with shares owned by other people or entities with connections to Mr. Deripaska. They include his charitable foundation, his former wife, her father and a family-linked firm called Orandy Capital Limited, as well as shares being transferred to VTB, a Russian government-owned bank under limited United States sanctions that had lent Mr. Deripaska large sums of money.And in a rare interview late last month, Mr. Deripaska said of the transfer to Liberi, “It’s a small portion of the shares. And it was part of my settlement with my wife, which was set long before.”Last month, Mr. Deripaska sued the Treasury Department and its officials, including Mr. Mnuchin, to reverse the sanctions that remain in place on him personally, claiming that he was deprived due process and that the sanctions cost him billions of dollars and made him “radioactive” in international business circles.In the interview with The New York Times, he blasted the sanctions as targeting him solely because he was a prominent Russian who has “a popular brand in the U.S.”He accused the Treasury Department of misrepresenting him in its justification for the sanctions. In announcing the sanctions, the department had noted that “Deripaska has said that he does not separate himself from the Russian state.”Mr. Deripaska explained the statement to mean that “it was just who I am.”“I am Russian,” he said. “And unfortunately, I was sanctioned because I am Russian.”He added, “I’m not planning to leave Russia to buy a hockey club, a football club, to spend crazy money on luxury things outside my country. I spend most of my time here. My kids are here. And my future also will be in Russia.”Kenneth P. Vogel reported from Washington, and Andrew E. Kramer from Moscow.Advertisement