AdvertisementSupported byBy Azi Paybarah [Want to get New York Today by email? Here’s the sign-up.]It’s Wednesday. Start planning: Brooklyn Bridge Park’s spring/summer schedule is out.Weather: Layer your wardrobe. The day starts cloudy and in the upper 40s. By early afternoon, it will be sunnier and in the low 60s. By nightfall, clouds return and temperatures dip into the 50s. Alternate-side parking: In effect today, then suspended through Saturday for Holy Thursday, Good Friday and Passover. The flames that engulfed the Cathedral of Notre-Dame in Paris make clear the difficulties that fire officials and religious leaders face in addressing vulnerabilities at some of New York’s most iconic buildings.There is a tension between preserving old but active houses of worship, whose roofs are practically firewood, and updating them to meet fire safety standards. A 2008 city law that requires sprinklers and fire alarms does not necessarily apply to old churches and other houses of worship, according to Daniel A. Nigro, the commissioner for the city’s Fire Department.“They’re grandfathered in,” Mr. Nigro said of the buildings, including St. Patrick’s Cathedral on Fifth Avenue in Manhattan. “They have to comply with the rules that existed when they were built.” That can make fighting fires tough. Church fires are “one of the most difficult challenges to fire departments around the world,” Mr. Nigro said. “A fire in a house of worship has always been a cause for concern. I didn’t start worrying about them yesterday.”As Mr. Nigro puts it, the goal is simple: “Put enough cooling power, which is water, on the fuel.”He said extinguishing flames could be hard in a church like Notre-Dame because “that building is longer than a football field.” It is “an elevated lumberyard being held up by stone walls.”In New York, the Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine is bigger and younger than Notre-Dame, but looks a lot like it.“The renderings I’m looking at in my office are very similar,” said James Patterson, director of facilities and capital projects at St. John, in Manhattan’s Morningside Heights neighborhood.A small fire in the basement forced Palm Sunday services and soup kitchen operations to move outside. Nobody was injured. In 2001, a major fire damaged the north side of the church.Mr. Patterson said installing sprinklers at St. John could be ineffective or potentially dangerous. The church has a lot of granite and limestone, which complicates firefighting strategies, he explained. “When the stone heats up, if there ever was a fire, the last thing you want to do is spray it with water,” he added. “What it does is it just pops all the stones apart.”Congestion pricing is coming to New York. New Jersey wants revenge.How a dark web drug ring was uncovered after suspicious A.T.M. withdrawals.President Trump has a history of using Sept. 11 for political attacks.Facing segregated schools, parents took integration into their own hands. It’s working.[Want more news from New York and around the region? Check out our full coverage.]The mini crossword: Here is today’s puzzle.An elite, all-girls private school on the Upper East Side got thousands of dollars in donations from a foundation set up by Jeffrey Epstein, the billionaire involved in a sex abuse case. [The Daily Beast]There are bed bugs at the Apple Store on Fifth Avenue. [New York Post]The popular dessert shop Milk Bar has renamed its “crack pie” following criticism for comparing a dish with an illegal drug. [Eater]The stars of Sesame Street will celebrate their 50th anniversary with a tour, starting in Upper Manhattan. [Daily News]A reading of the play “Trying to Find Chinatown” is followed by a discussion at Borough of Manhattan Community College, part of Asian Heritage Month. 2:30 p.m. [Free]Create collages that reflect the experience of migration at the Studio Museum in Harlem. 6 p.m. [Free with R.S.V.P.]See the garden of cherry trees at Lewis Latimer House Museum in Queens. 12 p.m.-5 p.m. [Free]— Iman StevensonEvents are subject to change, so double-check before heading out. For more events, see the going-out guides from The Times’s culture pages.Most people don’t think of New York City as a place to capture amazing images of the moon or sun. But perhaps they should.“You are 100 percent correct,” said Gary Hershorn of Hoboken, N.J., a seasoned photojournalist and contributing photographer to Getty Images.Since 2012, Mr. Hershorn has been photographing the moon and sun rising and setting over the city skyline. In July, a book of his photographs will be published, called “New York Celestial.”Manhattan runs north to south, “which gives photographers an opportunity to actually see the moonrise against the city,” he said. Head over to Eagle Rock Reservation in New Jersey and you can see the moon as it makes its way throughout the city.“The moon rises in a different spot every month,” Mr. Hershorn said.Quick science refresher: The moon is on a 28-day elliptical cycle. So, as Earth turns, it looks as if the moon is rising and setting in a different spot on the horizon each day.If you stood in the same location every day, the moon “might come up right behind the Empire State Building or right behind the World Trade Center,” Mr. Hershorn said. “The next month, it might come up over Central Park or Yonkers.”Capturing these images was no accident, Mr. Hershorn said. He woke up early and stood outdoors on frigid winter mornings. He drove countless miles to reach the perfect viewing spot.But he’s not alone. Mr. Hershorn said that in recent years, all his favorite photography spots had become more crowded with professional and amateur photographers, looking to capture an image of a supermoon, a blood moon or some other oddity in the sky.At one point, I asked Mr. Hershorn if he had observed any unusual activity when the moon is full.“I can’t honestly say I’ve witnessed peculiar activity associated with it,” he said. “But people say it’s out there.”It’s Wednesday: Look up.Dear Diary:After my husband died in hospice in 2013, I gathered his belongings. There weren’t many. I planned to donate them, but as I looked at his shoes, an expression popped into my mind: “No one can fill his shoes.” I had no idea what I was going to do with them.A man on the custodial staff saw me and pointed at the shoes.“Are they Top-Siders?” he asked enthusiastically.“Yes,” I said.“Are they size 10?”“Yes,” I said, a sound of surprise in my own voice.“May I have them?” “Yes,” I said emphatically.— Marcia LongmanNew York Today is published weekdays around 6 a.m. Sign up here to get it by email. You can also find it at nytoday.com.We’re experimenting with the format of New York Today. What would you like to see more (or less) of? Post a comment or email us: nytoday@nytimes.com.Advertisement