AdvertisementSupported byOn SoccerBy Rory SmithLONDON — As soon as they poured off the Tube at the Seven Sisters stop, the Victoria Line depositing hundreds of fans every minute, they were on autopilot. Heads down through the station, turn left at the top of the escalators, out into the early evening light, and north.Tottenham Hotspur’s supporters have not walked this way for 689 long days, but they know the route by heart: past Tottenham Green, down the hill, onto the High Road. There, the street once again closed to traffic on matchday, they lingered a little, taking photos of the space-age structure looming above them, marveling at the speed and the scale of change. Now, everything would be different. And yet somehow so familiar was the setting that it all felt the same. Tottenham Hotspur was back home.That is how the club sees the $1 billion stadium it inaugurated with a 2-0 win against Crystal Palace on Wednesday night: not so much a move as a return; new and gleaming and modern, but somehow in keeping with tradition, too, a fusion of the future and the past.“We are home,” the club’s announcer said before the start of a brief opening ceremony. There was genuine emotion in his voice. Thousands of flags, emblazoned with the slogan “Welcome Home,” fluttered in the stands.It is not quite that simple, of course. Those thousands of fans making the journey down the Seven Sisters Road have been waiting for this moment throughout their club’s long exile at Wembley: the day when they would step once again on familiar territory, when they might retrace the steps of more than a century, when they would be back where they belong.They started arriving early, filling first the streets and then the stands hours before kickoff, not just savoring the occasion, but getting their bearings, too. They needed to work out how long the lines for security would take. They wanted to sample the bars, to find their seats, to take in the view, to try out the acoustics. The grid reference and the postal code might be the same, but the mechanics of a matchday, necessarily, could not be. A house does not become a home overnight.That this stadium — named, for now, after the club — is beautiful is not in question. As part of the design process, Tottenham’s chairman, Daniel Levy, and Chris Lee of Populous, the stadium’s architects, visited hundreds of stadiums around the world: not just those that house soccer teams, but arenas that host other sports, too.They tried to incorporate elements from those that impressed them into Tottenham’s new facility: the stadium’s centerpiece, the vast bank of its South Stand, owes a nod of inspiration not just to the Kop stands traditional in England but — as has been much trumpeted in the last few years — to the Yellow Wall at Borussia Dortmund, widely regarded as the most intimidating grandstand in Europe.To an inexpert eye, though, there were plenty of other references: the curved lines of the stands are redolent of Olympique Marseille’s Stade Velodrome, redesigned for the 2016 European Championship, and Benfica’s Estadio da Luz; the sense of proximity to the field, of fans towering over the players, is something that would be familiar to anyone who has been to La Bombonera, where Boca Juniors play; there is an echo in the layout, too, of the Allianz Arena, home of Bayern Munich.Those stadiums are all very different, but they are united by the reputation they have for boisterous, deafening atmospheres, the holy grail of any modern arena. Something in their design — either deliberate or by chance — captures and traps noise. It washes down on to the field and swirls around the air. It enhances the experience not just for the fans in attendance, but for those watching on, living vicariously, at home.Levy and Lee wanted Tottenham to lay claim to the finest stadium in the world, a place where fans wanted to spend time — and, as a consequence, money — before and after the whistle. They took care to give the place a sheen of luxury, making sure everything from the toilets to the food were a level above anything a visitor might find elsewhere.But they knew, too, that what makes a stadium great is not just the quality of its finish but the feeling it engenders; they wanted to infuse it with a little of the magic that of Dortmund and Munich and Marseille, designing not just something to take the breath away, but a place to make fans scream their lungs hoarse.Though design is a part of that — as anyone who has been to the many soulless bowls on the outskirts of English market towns would testify — it is not something that can be created out of nothing. Atmosphere cannot be boiled down to an equation: this many fans multiplied by this much gradient divided by this distance to the field.It is something organic, something that develops over months and years, a composite of the character of the crowds and the experiences they have lived through, the memories they share, and the nature of and expectations on the team. It does not appear out of the ether.Spurs have done all they can to help that process along. At the end of the opening ceremony, with the teams on the field — and Crystal Palace’s players looking entirely baffled by the whole farrago — the camera focused in on Harry Kane, Tottenham’s captain and totem. He was gazing out at the stands, wearing the stoic but proud look of a father watching a child graduate. Well, he might: he has waited long enough to see this day, and he had good reason to be pleased with the results. The place is everything Spurs hoped, and promised, it would be.It is not, though, everything it will be, not yet. It was never going to be, not on its opening night. Spurs are back where they have always been, at the end of that long and familiar walk, left out of Seven Sisters and north, up the High Road. The setting is the same. The backdrop is comforting. But the building is different; still, for now, a house, not yet a home.Follow Rory Smith on Twitter: @RorySmith.Advertisement