Supported by By Daniel E. Slotnik Pedro Morales, a Hall of Fame professional wrestler who in the 1970s and ’80s became the first to win all three of what were then wrestling’s premier championships, died on Monday in Perth Amboy, N.J. He was 76. His wife, Karen Morales, said the cause was complications of Parkinson’s disease. Morales, who wrestled professionally for nearly three decades, became a star in the early 1970s. He was known as a vigorous puncher and a master of the Boston crab, a debilitating hold in which he grabbed his opponent’s legs, turned him facedown to the mat and pulled the legs back toward his opponent’s head. Morales tangled with wrestlers like Mr. Fuji, Bruno Sammartino and Ivan Koloff, whom he beat in Madison Square Garden to win the World Wide Wrestling Federation (now World Wrestling Entertainment) title in 1971. Fans were enthusiastic about the new champion. “The biggest problem is not how or if he will win, but how he will get past his adoring fans to his dressing room after the victory,” The New York Times wrote in 1972. Morales held the title for 1,027 days, one of the longest reigns ever, before losing it to Stan Stasiak in 1973. In 1980 Morales and Bob Backlund defeated the Wild Samoans at Shea Stadium to win the World Tag Team title. He won the Intercontinental Championship a few months later by defeating Ken Patera. Morales retired in 1987 and for a time was a Spanish-language commentator for WWE and World Championship Wrestling. He was inducted into what is now the WWE Hall of Fame in 1995. The Hall of Fame wrestler Gorilla Monsoon said in a video for Morales’s induction that wrestlers remembered him as much for his kindness outside the ring as for his ferocity in it. “Pedro Morales, probably one of the greatest-loved World Wrestling Federation champions of all time, because Pedro was genuinely a nice guy,” Monsoon said. “Both inside — well, inside the ring at times he could be a handful. But outside the ring he was Mr. Politeness, Mr. Etiquette.” Pedro Morales was born on Culebra, a tiny island to the east of the main island of Puerto Rico, on Oct. 22, 1942, to Pedro and Theodora (Rivera) Morales. His mother owned a restaurant on Vieques, a neighboring island, and later a bakery on Culebra, and his father worked as a mental health aide in New York and sent money back home. Morales moved to Brooklyn as a teenager and completed high school in East New York. He first wrestled professionally in 1959 and became a regional champion on the West Coast during the 1960s. In one of his best-remembered matches, Morales faced Sammartino, who was often his ally, in front of more than 20,000 people at Shea Stadium in 1972. A curfew ordinance forced the marathon 75-minute match to end in a draw. He met Karen Johnson after a match in 1965, and they married in 1972. In addition to his wife, with whom he lived in Woodbridge, N.J., he is survived by a sister, Aida Morales. An earlier version of this obituary misstated the year Morales won the World Wide Wrestling Federation championship. It was 1971, not 1970. Follow Daniel E. Slotnik on Twitter: @dslotnikSupported by By Daniel E. Slotnik King Kong Bundy, a colossal professional wrestler who tangled with stars like Hulk Hogan and the Undertaker in the 1980s and ’90s, died on Monday at his home in Glassboro, N.J. He was 63. His death was confirmed by his sister Noreen Watson, who did not specify a cause. Professional wrestlers tend to be sizable, but Bundy, whose birth name was Christopher Pallies, was massive even by wrestling standards. A bald, scowling goliath, he stood about 6 feet 4 inches tall and was said to weigh 450 pounds or more in his prime. His fellow wrestler Gorilla Monsoon called him a “walking condominium,” and an announcer at a 1985 match sponsored by the World Wrestling Federation (now World Wrestling Entertainment) said that colliding with Bundy’s outstretched arm was like “running into a Sherman tank.” Bundy brought his bulk and surprising agility to bear in his matches. He relied on moves like the avalanche, which involved launching his chest at a standing opponent’s face, and the splash, which involved belly-flopping onto an opponent on the mat. In one memorable match at the first WrestleMania, in 1985 at Madison Square Garden, Bundy snatched Special Delivery Jones in a bear hug, slammed him into the turnbuckle, hit him with an avalanche and then finished him with a splash, pinning him in a matter of seconds. Though Bundy held his own in the ring, he never became a WWE champion. The closest he got was at WrestleMania 2 in Los Angeles in 1986, when he lost a championship steel-cage match to Hulk Hogan. Bundy left professional wrestling in the late 1980s, but returned for a time in the ’90s and continued wrestling into the 2000s. He also had an acting career of sorts, appearing on two episodes of the Fox sitcom “Married With Children” and one episode of the USA sitcom “Weird Science.” And he had a small role in the film “Moving” (1988), which starred Richard Pryor. Christopher Alan Pallies was born on Nov. 7, 1955, in Woodbury, N.J., to Donald and Margaret (McCarthy) Pallies. His father was a railroad freight agent, and his mother worked part time at a department store. He grew up in Washington Township, N.J., and graduated from Washington Township High School before embarking on his wrestling career. In addition to his sister Noreen, Bundy is survived by another sister, Kate Pallies; his father, Donald; three brothers, Donald, Jeff and Tim; and a son, David. Susan C. Beachy contributed research. Follow Daniel E. Slotnik on Twitter: @dslotnikSupported by The Patriots’ dominant tight end, known for his combination of size and speed, announced his retirement on Instagram. By Benjamin Hoffman and Ken Belson Rob Gronkowski, the dominant tight end who helped lead the New England Patriots to three Super Bowl titles in nine seasons while cultivating a goofy, frat boy persona off the field, announced his retirement from the N.F.L. on Sunday. In an Instagram post, Gronkowski, 29, widely considered one of the most talented tight ends to ever play, thanked the team and its fans for drafting his “silliness” back in 2010 and acknowledged the uncertainty of what will come next for him. “Thank you for everyone accepting who I am and the dedication I have put into my work to be the best player I could be,” he said. “But now its time to move forward and move forward with a big smile knowing that the New England Patriots Organization, Pats Nation, and all my fans will be truly a big part of my heart for rest of my life.” Gronkowski did not say why he was retiring, or what he planned to do next. But according to a report on NFL Network, Gronkowski agreed to a deal with a film or television company before the Super Bowl. Becoming a television or movie personality is not a complete surprise; he seemed to enjoy performing on camera, dancing and hamming it up on things like a Gronk Party Ship in 2016 filled with fans and entertainers on a cruise ship from Miami to the Bahamas. He danced shirtless and appeared to egg on patrons to have sex. There also were a series of injuries that put in question how much longer he could play. He had hinted the past two seasons that he was considering leaving the N.F.L. because of the wear and tear on his body, which led to missed games because of an ankle sprain, a broken forearm, an infection, a herniated disk in his back, a torn A.C.L., a sprained knee, an injured hamstring and a pulmonary contusion, among other injuries. Gronkowski — should this truly be the end — will finish his career with 521 catches, 7,861 yards and a Patriots-record 79 receiving touchdowns. He was named to the Pro Bowl five times and was first-team All-Pro four times, taking full advantage of his size and speed to find mismatches on any given play.  His team made the Super Bowl in five of his nine seasons, winning three times, but he was not on the field for the Patriots’ dramatic comeback win over the Atlanta Falcons in Super Bowl LI because he was recovering for back surgery. When he was on the field, though, he was nearly always the go-to receiver for Tom Brady, with the two combining for thrilling plays in the closing minutes of countless games. “What an honor and privilege to play with you these past nine years @gronk!,’’ Brady wrote on Instagram. “You accomplished so much and our team was almost unbeatable when you were on the field!” Last season, Gronkowski earned nearly $9 million in salary and bonuses. He was able to finish his career on a high note, helping the Patriots — the only team he has played for — beat the Los Angeles Rams in Super Bowl LIII.  Drafted in the second round (42nd over all) of the 2010 draft, Gronkowski used his hulking 6-foot-6 frame to excel as a receiver and a blocker. He also used his size to run over defenders and, at times, confront them. He was fined four times, including once for taunting a player, once for unnecessary roughness and once for his role in a brawl at the end of Super Bowl XLIX. Because of his age and his injury history, much of the talk coming into this year’s Super Bowl was about whether Gronkowski had fallen off as a player. That idea was brushed aside by Aqib Talib, a cornerback for the Rams and a former teammate of Gronkowski’s. “You all haven’t put on shoulder pads and helmets and lined up against Gronk in your life. I do,” Talib said. “So believe me when I tell you, any day he can explode and go crazy.” Just as Talib predicted, Gronkowski played a huge role in the Patriots’ win, with six catches for 87 yards. Two of his catches, which went for a combined 47 yards, set up Sony Michel’s 2-yard touchdown run in the fourth quarter, all but deciding the game. As dominant as he was on the field, Gronkowski was equally larger than life off it, frequently standing out among the businesslike Patriots, led by Coach Bill Belichick, with his love of partying and his frequent sophomoric humor, delivered with an exaggerated wink. Gronkowski’s fun-loving personality was candy to his fans. But it came as the N.F.L. was battling the perception — in the wake of several high-profile players being suspended for domestic violence and sexual abuse — that it cared little for how women were treated. Given his size and sense of humor, it was perhaps appropriate that Gronkowski is also a professional wrestling fan and friends with performers including Mojo Rawley. Gronkowski helped him “win” a Battle Royal in 2017. From time to time, speculation has surfaced that WWE was interested in offering Gronkowski a contract. His wrestling cameos might have been a prelude to a new career on screen. Already, he has appeared in the television series “Entourage,” “Family Guy” and “MVP.” He has also appeared in movies, including “The Lit Party,” “You Can’t Have It” and “American Violence.” Benjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook  Ken Belson covers the N.F.L. He joined the Sports section in 2009 after stints in Metro and Business. From 2001 to 2004, he wrote about Japan in the Tokyo bureau.  Supported by By Dan McQuade On many episodes of “Project Runway All Stars” Season 7, which airs its final episode Wednesday on Lifetime, the host and judge Alyssa Milano has announced that the week’s winning design will be sold on JCPenney.com the following day. Except that’s not true. Viewers who are looking for a ready-to-wear version of a winning look from “Runway” veterans like Dmitry Sholokhov or Irina Shabayeva are presented with a message on the department store chain’s website that the collaboration with J.C. Penney has been discontinued. “Season 7 of ‘Project Runway All Stars’ was taped well before our collaboration with the show ended, and we were unaware that the season would begin airing in January 2019,” the company said in a statement via email. “Because of this unfortunate turn of events, J.C. Penney no longer had the agreement in place to produce or sell the winning looks.” Legally, the company says it couldn’t produce the designs. The back story to J.C. Penney’s ghost sponsorship of the season involves the franchise’s producers, the Weinstein Company. Under the terms of the branding partnership, which began in the summer of 2017, the retailer would be the exclusive partner for two “Project Runway” seasons and “All Stars” Season 7, selling branded women’s clothing and producing versions of designs from winners and challenge episodes. But after the sexual abuse allegations against Harvey Weinstein were first reported that fall, things became complicated. Weinstein was fired by the board. The company went bankrupt. Lantern Capital Partners bought the Weinstein Company assets last year, and flipped the rights to “Project Runway” to NBCUniversal. At one point, it wasn’t clear whether the latest “All-Stars” season would ever air. (It was taped during the summer of 2017.) Last October, J.C. Penney filed to dissolve the partnership as part of the Weinstein Company’s continuing bankruptcy proceedings. (Court documents show that the “Project Runway” producers were guaranteed $1.8 million a year in royalties in their two year deal with J.C. Penney. So far, they’ve received $1.44 million, and Weinstein Company creditors have filed a motion compelling the rest of the payments from the retailer.) All of this presented a challenge for Lifetime, which has aired the “Project Runway” franchise for the last 10 years. (The series has since moved back to its original network, Bravo.) Through partnerships with brands like Dixie, Campbell Soup Company and the WWE, the show has pushed the boundaries of sponsored content well past the expected makeup, hair and sewing machine plugs, slathering the show in completely unsubtle and odd product placement. A recent challenge on “All Stars” involved silk because that week’s guest judge had just visited Thailand — with the help of the Tourism Authority of Thailand. Fans have noticed, and bemoaned it. “There were always sponsored challenges on Bravo,” Ani Bundel wrote on the NBC News website earlier this year. “But at Lifetime this trend accelerated.” And when it comes to J.C. Penney branding, “All Stars” Season 7 has gone all out. The retailer is name-checked by Milano and other contestants constantly. It’s built into the show’s staging, with a J.C. Penney accessory wall. One episode featured sponsored content right in the episode title (“Penneys from Heaven”). The brand’s presence is baked into the season’s DNA. Despite this conundrum, Lifetime decided to air it anyway, as is, starting in January (roughly 18 months after filming) — which is why Milano has been telling viewers most weeks about an outfit they won’t be able to buy. It has been weird. There is no explanation or indication that the J.C. Penney partnership has ended — only a confusingly vague “Previously Recorded” message that appears in the corner of the screen every time the retailer is mentioned. (A Lifetime spokeswoman declined to comment on the record as to why the branding was left in despite the circumstances.) To add to the bizarre nature of it all, the show often feels dated — one challenge involved designing an outfit inspired by the “Charlie and the Chocolate Factory” Broadway musical, which closed a year before the season aired. Milano did not mean to mislead viewers. She is blameless. And, in some ways, the overt branding for a company that actually filed legal documents to dissolve that advertising partnership is accidental high art. But for viewers, it can be disappointing: What is on air, isn’t actually happening. The experience is cheapened. It turns out the J.C. Penney collaborations might not have been that great of a prize even when they existed. “I wouldn’t say they’re missing out,” said Erin Robertson, who won “Project Runway” Season 15 and was the first designer to have a collection with the store. As part of the deal, her designs were supposed to “inspire” J.C. Penney products, but she was disappointed by how little the resulting wardrobe felt like her own. “We went to meetings and they were like, ‘We love these!’” she added. “And then they never did anything that we talked about.” Robertson’s deal came about after she won her season; she signed a contract with the Weinstein Company and received an upfront fee. She said she was supposed to receive royalties, but did not. For Kentaro Kameyama, whose line led him to victory in Season 16, the J.C. Penney collection “inspired by” his winning design was part of his prize on the show. The retailer met with him for a second collection as well, that he says was eventually produced without his name on it. Like Robertson, he met with J.C. Penney and provided them with design inspiration and textiles. They were all very excited, he said, but then the company’s contact with him just stopped. Items similar to the designs he says he shared with the company later went on sale, without identifying him as the designer. He says his inquiries to J.C. Penney have gone unanswered. “I feel like they just felt they could take advantage of me,” Kameyama said. “They took my design, but they didn’t put my name on it.” In response to Robertson and Kameyama’s comments, a spokeswoman for J.C. Penney provided a statement that said, in part, “the J.C. Penney agreement was with Weinstein Television, LLC. We never entered into any direct arrangements with the contestants/designers. We are not privy to the contract between the contestants/designers and Weinstein so we cannot speak to any royalties they may be owed.” The company also clarified that the products inspired by Robertson and Kameyama’s designs were shipped “with a ‘Project Runway’ label and a ‘Winner’s Collection’ hangtag. We never produced clothing under any of the designer’s names.” Perhaps the point of “Project Runway” is no longer the fashion or competition, but over-the-top product placement. There’s a new “Project Runway” now — Season 18 — on Bravo. There have been big changes, with a new host (Karlie Kloss has replaced Heidi Klum), mentor (Christian Siriano in place of Tim Gunn) and even a new production company (Magical Elves took over for Bunim/Murray). But the ad blitz continues. In the season premiere, Siriano told contestants the show is providing them with all the tools they need, including “Pilot FriXion erasable pens for sketching.” The contestants oohed and aahed in unison. One even said “awesome.” It’s corny. But on the upside, at least the pen actually exists.